DMESG(1)                                        User Commands                                       DMESG(1)

NAME
       dmesg - print or control the kernel ring buffer

SYNOPSIS
       dmesg [options]

       dmesg --clear
       dmesg --read-clear [options]
       dmesg --console-level level
       dmesg --console-on
       dmesg --console-off

DESCRIPTION
       dmesg is used to examine or control the kernel ring buffer.

       The default action is to display all messages from the kernel ring buffer.

OPTIONS
       The  --clear,  --read-clear,  --console-on,  --console-off,  and --console-level options are mutually
       exclusive.

       -C, --clear
              Clear the ring buffer.

       -c, --read-clear
              Clear the ring buffer after first printing its contents.

       -D, --console-off
              Disable the printing of messages to the console.

       -d, --show-delta
              Display the timestamp and the time delta  spent  between  messages.   If  used  together  with
              --notime then only the time delta without the timestamp is printed.

       -E, --console-on
              Enable printing messages to the console.

       -e, --reltime
              Display  the  local  time and the delta in human-readable format.  Be aware that conversion to
              the local time could be inaccurate (see -T for more details).

       -F, --file file
              Read the syslog messages from the given file.  Note that -F does not support messages in  kmsg
              format. The old syslog format is supported only.

       -f, --facility list
              Restrict output to the given (comma-separated) list of facilities.  For example:

                     dmesg --facility=daemon

              will  print  messages  from  system daemons only.  For all supported facilities see the --help
              output.

       -H, --human
              Enable human-readable output.  See also --color, --reltime and --nopager.

       -k, --kernel
              Print kernel messages.

       -L, --color[=when]
              Colorize the output.  The optional argument when can be auto, never or always.   If  the  when
              argument  is omitted, it defaults to auto.  The colors can be disabled; for the current built-
              in default see the --help output.  See also the COLORS section below.

       -l, --level list
              Restrict output to the given (comma-separated) list of levels.  For example:

                     dmesg --level=err,warn

              will print error and warning messages only.  For all supported levels see the --help output.

       -n, --console-level level
              Set the level at which printing of messages is done to the console.  The level is a level num‐
              ber or abbreviation of the level name.  For all supported levels see the --help output.

              For  example,  -n 1 or -n alert prevents all messages, except emergency (panic) messages, from
              appearing on the console.  All levels of messages are still written  to  /proc/kmsg,  so  sys‐
              logd(8) can still be used to control exactly where kernel messages appear.  When the -n option
              is used, dmesg will not print or clear the kernel ring buffer.

       -P, --nopager
              Do not pipe output into a pager.  A pager is enabled by default for --human output.

       -r, --raw
              Print the raw message buffer, i.e. do not strip the log-level prefixes.

              Note that the real raw format depends on the method how dmesg(1) reads kernel  messages.   The
              /dev/kmsg device uses a different format than syslog(2).  For backward compatibility, dmesg(1)
              returns data always in the syslog(2) format.  It is possible to read the real  raw  data  from
              /dev/kmsg by, for example, the command 'dd if=/dev/kmsg iflag=nonblock'.

       -S, --syslog
              Force  dmesg to use the syslog(2) kernel interface to read kernel messages.  The default is to
              use /dev/kmsg rather than syslog(2) since kernel 3.5.0.

       -s, --buffer-size size
              Use a buffer of size to query the kernel ring buffer.  This is 16392 by default.  (The default
              kernel  syslog buffer size was 4096 at first, 8192 since 1.3.54, 16384 since 2.1.113.)  If you
              have set the kernel buffer to be larger than the default, then this option can be used to view
              the entire buffer.

       -T, --ctime
              Print human-readable timestamps.

              Be  aware  that  the  timestamp could be inaccurate!  The time source used for the logs is not
              updated after system SUSPEND/RESUME.

       -t, --notime
              Do not print kernel's timestamps.

       --time-format format
              Print timestamps using the given format, which can be ctime, reltime, delta or iso.  The first
              three  formats  are  aliases  of  the time-format-specific options.  The iso format is a dmesg
              implementation of the ISO-8601 timestamp format.  The purpose of this format is  to  make  the
              comparing  of  timestamps between two systems, and any other parsing, easy.  The definition of
              the iso timestamp is: YYYY-MM-DD<T>HH:MM:SS,<microseconds><-+><timezone offset from UTC>.

              The iso format has the same issue as ctime: the time may be inaccurate when a system  is  sus‐
              pended and resumed.

       -u, --userspace
              Print userspace messages.

       -w, --follow
              Wait  for  new  messages.  This feature is supported only on systems with a readable /dev/kmsg
              (since kernel 3.5.0).

       -x, --decode
              Decode facility and level (priority) numbers to human-readable prefixes.

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.

COLORS
       Implicit coloring can be disabled by an empty file /etc/terminal-colors.d/dmesg.disable.  See  termi‐
       nal-colors.d(5) for more details about colorization configuration.

       The logical color names supported by dmesg are:

       subsys The message sub-system prefix (e.g. "ACPI:").

       time   The message timestamp.

       timebreak
              The message timestamp in short ctime format in --reltime or --human output.

       alert  The text of the message with the alert log priority.

       crit   The text of the message with the critical log priority.

       err    The text of the message with the error log priority.

       warn   The text of the message with the warning log priority.

       segfault
              The text of the message that inform about segmentation fault.

SEE ALSO
       terminal-colors.d(5), syslogd(8)

AUTHORS
       Karel Zak ⟨kzak@redhat.com⟩

       dmesg was originally written by Theodore Ts'o ⟨tytso@athena.mit.edu⟩

AVAILABILITY
       The  dmesg  command  is  part  of  the  util-linux package and is available from Linux Kernel Archive
       ⟨https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/⟩.

util-linux                                        July 2012                                         DMESG(1)
