FILESYSTEMS(5)                            Linux Programmer's Manual                           FILESYSTEMS(5)

NAME
       filesystems  - Linux filesystem types: ext, ext2, ext3, ext4, hpfs, iso9660, JFS, minix, msdos, ncpfs
       nfs, ntfs, proc, Reiserfs, smb, sysv, umsdos, vfat, XFS, xiafs,

DESCRIPTION
       When, as is customary,  the  proc  filesystem  is  mounted  on  /proc,  you  can  find  in  the  file
       /proc/filesystems which filesystems your kernel currently supports; see proc(5) for more details.  If
       you need a currently unsupported filesystem, insert the corresponding module or recompile the kernel.

       In order to use a filesystem, you have to mount it; see mount(8).

       Below a short description of the available or historically available filesystems in the Linux kernel.
       See kernel documentation for a comprehensive description of all options and limitations.

       ext       is  an  elaborate  extension of the minix filesystem.  It has been completely superseded by
                 the second version of the extended filesystem (ext2) and has been removed from  the  kernel
                 (in 2.1.21).

       ext2      is  the high performance disk filesystem used by Linux for fixed disks as well as removable
                 media.  The second extended filesystem  was  designed  as  an  extension  of  the  extended
                 filesystem (ext).  See ext2(5).

       ext3      is  a  journaling  version  of  the  ext2  filesystem.  It is easy to switch back and forth
                 between ext2 and ext3.  See ext3(5).

       ext4      is  a  set  of  upgrades  to  ext3  including  substantial  performance   and   reliability
                 enhancements,  plus  large  increases  in  volume,  file,  and  directory size limits.  See
                 ext4(5).

       hpfs      is the High Performance Filesystem, used in OS/2.  This filesystem is read-only under Linux
                 due to the lack of available documentation.

       iso9660   is a CD-ROM filesystem type conforming to the ISO 9660 standard.

                 High Sierra
                        Linux  supports  High  Sierra,  the  precursor  to  the ISO 9660 standard for CD-ROM
                        filesystems.  It is automatically recognized within the iso9660  filesystem  support
                        under Linux.

                 Rock Ridge
                        Linux  also  supports  the System Use Sharing Protocol records specified by the Rock
                        Ridge Interchange Protocol.  They are used to further  describe  the  files  in  the
                        iso9660  filesystem  to a UNIX host, and provide information such as long filenames,
                        UID/GID, POSIX permissions, and devices.  It is automatically recognized within  the
                        iso9660 filesystem support under Linux.

       JFS       is  a  journaling  filesystem,  developed  by IBM, that was integrated into Linux in kernel
                 2.4.24.

       minix     is the filesystem used in the Minix operating system, the first to run under Linux.  It has
                 a  number  of  shortcomings, including a 64 MB partition size limit, short filenames, and a
                 single timestamp.  It remains useful for floppies and RAM disks.

       msdos     is the filesystem used by DOS, Windows, and some OS/2 computers.  msdos filenames can be no
                 longer than 8 characters, followed by an optional period and 3 character extension.

       ncpfs     is a network filesystem that supports the NCP protocol, used by Novell NetWare.

                 To  use  ncpfs, you need special programs, which can be found at ⟨ftp://linux01.gwdg.de/pub
                 /ncpfs⟩.

       nfs       is the network filesystem used to access disks located on remote computers.

       ntfs      replaces Microsoft Window's FAT filesystems (VFAT, FAT32).   It  has  reliability,  perfor‐
                 mance,  and space-utilization enhancements plus features like ACLs, journaling, encryption,
                 and so on.

       proc      is a pseudo filesystem which is used as an interface to kernel data structures rather  than
                 reading  and interpreting /dev/kmem.  In particular, its files do not take disk space.  See
                 proc(5).

       Reiserfs  is a journaling filesystem, designed by Hans Reiser, that was integrated into Linux in ker‐
                 nel 2.4.1.

       smb       is  a  network  filesystem  that supports the SMB protocol, used by Windows for Workgroups,
                 Windows NT, and Lan Manager.  See ⟨https://www.samba.org/samba/smbfs/⟩.

       sysv      is an implementation of the SystemV/Coherent filesystem for Linux.  It  implements  all  of
                 Xenix FS, SystemV/386 FS, and Coherent FS.

       umsdos    is  an  extended  DOS  filesystem  used  by  Linux.  It adds capability for long filenames,
                 UID/GID, POSIX permissions, and special files (devices, named pipes, etc.)  under  the  DOS
                 filesystem, without sacrificing compatibility with DOS.

       tmpfs     is  a filesystem whose contents reside in virtual memory.  Since the files on such filesys‐
                 tems typically reside in RAM, file access is extremely fast.  See tmpfs(5).

       vfat      is an extended FAT filesystem used by Microsoft Windows95 and Windows NT.   vfat  adds  the
                 capability to use long filenames under the MSDOS filesystem.

       XFS       is  a  journaling  filesystem,  developed  by SGI, that was integrated into Linux in kernel
                 2.4.20.

       xiafs     was designed and implemented to be  a  stable,  safe  filesystem  by  extending  the  Minix
                 filesystem  code.   It provides the basic most requested features without undue complexity.
                 The xiafs filesystem is no longer actively developed or maintained.  It  was  removed  from
                 the kernel in 2.1.21.

SEE ALSO
       fuse(4), btrfs(5), ext2(5), ext3(5), ext4(5), nfs(5), proc(5), tmpfs(5), fsck(8), mkfs(8), mount(8)

Linux                                            2018-04-30                                   FILESYSTEMS(5)
