HDPARM(8)                                  System Manager's Manual                                 HDPARM(8)

NAME
       hdparm - get/set SATA/IDE device parameters

SYNOPSIS
       hdparm [options] [device ...]

DESCRIPTION
       hdparm  provides  a  command  line  interface  to  various  kernel  interfaces supported by the Linux
       SATA/PATA/SAS "libata" subsystem and the older IDE driver subsystem.  Many newer (2008 and later) USB
       drive  enclosures  now  also support "SAT" (SCSI-ATA Command Translation) and therefore may also work
       with hdparm.  E.g. recent WD "Passport" models and recent NexStar-3  enclosures.   Some  options  may
       work correctly only with the latest kernels.

OPTIONS
       When no options are given, -acdgkmur is assumed.  For "Get/set" options, a query without the optional
       parameter (e.g. -d) will query (get) the device state, and with a parameter (e.g., -d0) will set  the
       device state.

       -a     Get/set  sector  count  for filesystem (software) read-ahead.  This is used to improve perfor‐
              mance in sequential reads of large files, by prefetching additional blocks in anticipation  of
              them  being  needed  by the running task.  Many IDE drives also have a separate built-in read-
              ahead function, which augments this filesystem (software) read-ahead function.

       -A     Get/set the IDE drive´s read-lookahead feature (usually ON by default).  Usage: -A0  (disable)
              or -A1 (enable).

       -b     Get/set bus state.

       -B     Get/set Advanced Power Management feature, if the drive supports it. A low value means aggres‐
              sive power management and a high value means better performance.  Possible settings range from
              values 1 through 127 (which permit spin-down), and values 128 through 254 (which do not permit
              spin-down).  The highest degree of power management is attained with a setting of 1,  and  the
              highest  I/O  performance  with  a  setting  of  254.   A value of 255 tells hdparm to disable
              Advanced Power Management altogether on the drive (not all drives support  disabling  it,  but
              most do).

       -c     Get/set  (E)IDE  32-bit I/O support.  A numeric parameter can be used to enable/disable 32-bit
              I/O support.  Currently supported values include 0 to disable 32-bit I/O support, 1 to  enable
              32-bit  data  transfers,  and  3  to enable 32-bit data transfers with a special sync sequence
              required by many chipsets.  The value 3 works with nearly all 32-bit IDE chipsets, but  incurs
              slightly  more  overhead.  Note that "32-bit" refers to data transfers across a PCI or VLB bus
              to the interface card only; all (E)IDE drives still have only a  16-bit  connection  over  the
              ribbon cable from the interface card.

       -C     Check  the  current IDE power mode status, which will always be one of unknown (drive does not
              support this command), active/idle (normal operation), standby (low power mode, drive has spun
              down), or sleeping (lowest power mode, drive is completely shut down).  The -S, -y, -Y, and -Z
              options can be used to manipulate the IDE power modes.

       -d     Get/set the "using_dma" flag for this drive.  This option now works with most combinations  of
              drives  and PCI interfaces which support DMA and which are known to the kernel IDE driver.  It
              is also a good idea to use the appropriate -X option in combination with -d1  to  ensure  that
              the  drive  itself  is programmed for the correct DMA mode, although most BIOSs should do this
              for you at boot time.  Using DMA nearly always gives  the  best  performance,  with  fast  I/O
              throughput  and  low  CPU  usage.  But there are at least a few configurations of chipsets and
              drives for which DMA does not make much of a difference, or may  even  slow  things  down  (on
              really messed up hardware!).  Your mileage may vary.

       --dco-freeze
              DCO  stands for Device Configuration Overlay, a way for vendors to selectively disable certain
              features of a drive.  The --dco-freeze option will freeze/lock the  current  drive  configura‐
              tion,  thereby preventing software (or malware) from changing any DCO settings until after the
              next power-on reset.

       --dco-identify
              Query and dump information regarding drive configuration settings which can be disabled by the
              vendor  or  OEM  installer.  These settings show capabilities of the drive which might be dis‐
              abled by the vendor for "enhanced compatibility".  When disabled, they  are  otherwise  hidden
              and  will  not  show in the -I identify output.  For example, system vendors sometimes disable
              48_bit addressing on large drives, for compatibility (and loss of capacity)  with  a  specific
              BIOS.   In  such cases, --dco-identify will show that the drive is 48_bit capable, but -I will
              not show it, and nor will the drive accept 48_bit commands.

       --dco-restore
              Reset all drive settings, features, and accessible capacities back  to  factory  defaults  and
              full  capabilities.   This command will fail if DCO is frozen/locked, or if a -Np maximum size
              restriction has also been set.  This is EXTREMELY DANGEROUS and will very likely cause massive
              loss of data.  DO NOT USE THIS COMMAND.

       --direct
              Use  the  kernel´s  "O_DIRECT"  flag when performing a -t timing test.  This bypasses the page
              cache, causing the reads to go directly from the drive into hdparm's buffers, using  so-called
              "raw"  I/O.   In  many  cases, this can produce results that appear much faster than the usual
              page cache method, giving a better indication of raw device and driver performance.

       --drq-hsm-error
              VERY DANGEROUS, DON'T EVEN THINK ABOUT USING IT.  This option causes hdparm to issue an  IDEN‐
              TIFY  command  to the kernel, but incorrectly marked as a "non-data" command.  This results in
              the drive being left with its DataReQust(DRQ) line "stuck" high.   This  confuses  the  kernel
              drivers,  and  may  crash the system immediately with massive data loss.  The option exists to
              help in testing and fortifying the kernel against similar real-world drive malfunctions.  VERY
              DANGEROUS, DO NOT USE!!

       -D     Enable/disable  the  on-drive  defect  management feature, whereby the drive firmware tries to
              automatically manage defective sectors by relocating them to "spare" sectors reserved  by  the
              factory  for such.  Control of this feature via the -D option is not supported for most modern
              drives since ATA-4; thus this command may fail.

       -E     Set cd/dvd drive speed.  This is NOT necessary for regular operation, as the drive will  auto‐
              matically switch speeds on its own.  But if you want to play with it, just supply a speed num‐
              ber after the option, usually a number like 2 or 4.  This can be useful in some cases, though,
              to smooth out DVD video playback.

       -f     Sync  and  flush  the  buffer  cache for the device on exit.  This operation is also performed
              internally as part of the -t and -T timings and other options.

       --fallocate
              This option currently works only on ext4 and xfs filesystem types.  When used,  this  must  be
              the  only option given.  It requires two parameters: the desired file size in kilo-bytes (byte
              count divided by 1024), followed by the pathname for the new file.  It will create a new  file
              of  the  specified size, but without actually having to write any data to the file.  This will
              normally complete very quickly, and without thrashing the storage device.

              E.g. Create a 10KByte file: hdparm --fallocate 10 temp_file

       --fibmap
              When used, this must be the only option given.  It requires a file path as  a  parameter,  and
              will  print  out  a  list  of the block extents (sector ranges) occupied by that file on disk.
              Sector numbers are given as absolute LBA numbers, referenced from sector  0  of  the  physical
              device  rather than from the partition or filesystem.  This information can then be used for a
              variety of purposes, such as examining the degree of fragmenation of larger files,  or  deter‐
              mining appropriate sectors to deliberately corrupt during fault-injection testing procedures.

              This  option  uses  the new FIEMAP (file extent map) ioctl() when available, and falls back to
              the older FIBMAP (file block map) ioctl() otherwise.  Note that FIBMAP suffers from  a  32-bit
              block-number  interface,  and thus not work beyond 8TB or 16TB.  FIBMAP is also very slow, and
              does not deal well with preallocated uncommitted extents in  ext4/xfs  filesystems,  unless  a
              sync() is done before using this option.

       --fwdownload
              When  used,  this  should be the only option given.  It requires a file path immediately after
              the option, indicating where the new drive firmware should be read from.  The contents of this
              file  will  be  sent  to  the  drive using the (S)ATA DOWNLOAD MICROCODE command, using either
              transfer protocol 7 (entire file at once), or, if the drive supports it, transfer  protocol  3
              (segmented  download).   This  command is EXTREMELY DANGEROUS and could destroy both the drive
              and all data on it.  DO NOT USE THIS COMMAND.  The --fwdownload-mode3 , --fwdownload-mode3-max
              ,  and --fwdownload-mode7 variations on basic --fwdownload allow overriding automatic protocol
              detection in favour of forcing hdparm to use a specific transfer protocol,  for  testing  pur‐
              poses only.

       -F     Flush the on-drive write cache buffer (older drives may not implement this).

       -g     Display  the  drive geometry (cylinders, heads, sectors), the size (in sectors) of the device,
              and the starting offset (in sectors) of the device from the beginning of the drive.

       -h     Display terse usage information (help).

       -H     Read the temperature from some (mostly Hitachi) drives.  Also reports if  the  temperature  is
              within  operating condition range (this may not be reliable). Does not cause the drive to spin
              up if idle.

       -i     Display the identification info which the  kernel  drivers  (IDE,  libata)  have  stored  from
              boot/configuration  time.   This  may  differ from the current information obtainable directly
              from the drive itself with the -I option.  The data  returned  may  or  may  not  be  current,
              depending  on  activity  since  booting the system.  For a more detailed interpretation of the
              identification info, refer to AT Attachment Interface for Disk Drives, ANSI ASC X3T9.2 working
              draft, revision 4a, April 19/93, and later editions.

       --idle-immediate
              Issue  an  ATA IDLE_IMMEDIATE command, to put the drive into a lower power state.  Usually the
              device remains spun-up.

       --idle-unload
              Issue an ATA IDLE_IMMEDIATE_WITH_UNLOAD command, to unload or park the heads and put the drive
              into a lower power state.  Usually the device remains spun-up.

       -I     Request identification info directly from the drive, which is displayed in a new expanded for‐
              mat with considerably more detail than with the older -i option.

       --Istdin
              This is a special variation on the -I option, which accepts a drive  identification  block  as
              standard  input  instead  of  using  a  /dev/hd*  parameter.  The format of this block must be
              exactly the same as that found in the /proc/ide/*/hd*/identify "files", or  that  produced  by
              the  --Istdout  option  described  below.   This  variation is designed for use with collected
              "libraries" of drive identification information, and can also be used on  ATAPI  drives  which
              may  give  media  errors  with  the standard mechanism.  When --Istdin is used, it must be the
              *only* parameter given.

       --Istdout
              This option dumps the drive's identify data in hex to stdout, in a format similar to that from
              /proc/ide/*/identify, and suitable for later use with the --Istdin option.

       -J     Get/set  the  Western Digital (WD) Green Drive's "idle3" timeout value.  This timeout controls
              how often the drive parks its heads and enters a low power  consumption  state.   The  factory
              default  is  eight (8) seconds, which is a very poor choice for use with Linux.  Leaving it at
              the default will result in hundreds of thousands of head load/unload cycles in  a  very  short
              period of time.  The drive mechanism is only rated for 300,000 to 1,000,000 cycles, so leaving
              it at the default could result in premature failure, not to mention the performance impact  of
              the drive often having to wake-up before doing routine I/O.

              WD supply a WDIDLE3.EXE DOS utility for tweaking this setting, and you should use that program
              instead of hdparm if at all possible.  The reverse-engineered implementation in hdparm is  not
              as complete as the original official program, even though it does seem to work on at a least a
              few drives.  A full power cycle is required for any change in setting to take effect,  regard‐
              less of which program is used to tweak things.

              A  setting of 30 seconds is recommended for Linux use.  Permitted values are from 8 to 12 sec‐
              onds, and from 30 to 300 seconds in 30-second increments.  Specify a value of zero (0) to dis‐
              able the WD idle3 timer completely (NOT RECOMMENDED!).

       -k     Get/set  the  "keep_settings_over_reset" flag for the drive.  When this flag is set, the drive
              will preserve the -dmu settings over  a  soft  reset,  (as  done  during  the  error  recovery
              sequence).  This option defaults to off, to prevent drive reset loops which could be caused by
              combinations of -dmu settings.  The -k option should therefore  only  be  set  after  one  has
              achieved  confidence  in correct system operation with a chosen set of configuration settings.
              In practice, all that is typically necessary to test a configuration (prior to using -k) is to
              verify that the drive can be read/written, and that no error logs (kernel messages) are gener‐
              ated in the process (look in /var/log/messages on most systems).

       -K     Set the drive´s "keep_features_over_reset" flag.  Setting this enables the drive to retain the
              settings  for -APSWXZ over a soft reset (as done during the error recovery sequence).  Not all
              drives support this feature.

       -L     Set the drive´s doorlock flag.  Setting this to 1 will lock the door mechanism of some  remov‐
              able  hard drives (e.g. Syquest, ZIP, Jazz..), and setting it to 0 will unlock the door mecha‐
              nism.  Normally, Linux maintains the door locking mechanism automatically, depending on  drive
              usage  (locked  whenever a filesystem is mounted).  But on system shutdown, this can be a nui‐
              sance if the root partition is on a removable disk, since the root partition is  left  mounted
              (read-only)  after  shutdown.   So,  by  using  this command to unlock the door after the root
              filesystem is remounted read-only, one can then remove the  cartridge  from  the  drive  after
              shutdown.

       -m     Get/set  sector count for multiple sector I/O on the drive.  A setting of 0 disables this fea‐
              ture.  Multiple sector mode (aka IDE Block Mode), is a feature of most modern IDE hard drives,
              permitting  the transfer of multiple sectors per I/O interrupt, rather than the usual one sec‐
              tor per interrupt.  When this feature is enabled, it typically reduces operating system  over‐
              head  for  disk I/O by 30-50%.  On many systems, it also provides increased data throughput of
              anywhere from 5% to 50%.  Some drives, however (most notably the WD Caviar  series),  seem  to
              run  slower with multiple mode enabled.  Your mileage may vary.  Most drives support the mini‐
              mum settings of 2, 4, 8, or 16 (sectors).  Larger settings may also be possible, depending  on
              the  drive.   A setting of 16 or 32 seems optimal on many systems.  Western Digital recommends
              lower settings of 4 to 8 on many of their drives, due tiny (32kB) drive buffers and  non-opti‐
              mized  buffering  algorithms.  The -i option can be used to find the maximum setting supported
              by an installed drive (look for MaxMultSect in the output).  Some drives claim to support mul‐
              tiple  mode,  but  lose  data  at  some settings.  Under rare circumstances, such failures can
              result in massive filesystem corruption.

       --make-bad-sector
              Deliberately create a bad sector (aka. "media error") on the disk.   EXCEPTIONALLY  DANGEROUS.
              DO  NOT USE THIS OPTION!!  This can be useful for testing of device/RAID error recovery mecha‐
              nisms.  The sector number is given as a (base10) parameter after the option.  Depending on the
              device,  hdparm  will  choose one of two possible ATA commands for corrupting the sector.  The
              WRITE_LONG works on most drives, but only up to the 28-bit sector boundary.  Some very  recent
              drives  (2008)  may support the new WRITE_UNCORRECTABLE_EXT command, which works for any LBA48
              sector.  If available, hdparm will use that in preference  to  WRITE_LONG.   The  WRITE_UNCOR‐
              RECTABLE_EXT  command  itself  presents  a choice of how the new bad sector should behave.  By
              default, it will look like any other bad sector, and the drive may take some time to retry and
              fail  on  subsequent  READs of the sector.  However, if a single letter f is prepended immedi‐
              ately in front of the first digit of the sector number parameter, then  hdparm  will  issue  a
              "flagged"  WRITE_UNCORRECTABLE_EXT,  which  causes  the drive to merely flag the sector as bad
              (rather than genuinely corrupt it), and subsequent READs of the sector will  fail  immediately
              (rather than after several retries).  Note also that the --repair-sector option can be used to
              restore (any) bad sectors when they are no longer needed, including  sectors  that  were  gen‐
              uinely bad (the drive will likely remap those to a fresh area on the media).

       -M     Get/set  Automatic  Acoustic  Management  (AAM)  setting. Most modern harddisk drives have the
              ability to speed down the head movements to reduce their noise output.   The  possible  values
              are  between  0  and  254.  128  is the most quiet (and therefore slowest) setting and 254 the
              fastest (and loudest). Some drives have only two levels (quiet / fast), while others may  have
              different levels between 128 and 254.  At the moment, most drives only support 3 options, off,
              quiet, and fast.  These have been assigned the values 0, 128,  and  254  at  present,  respec‐
              tively, but integer space has been incorporated for future expansion, should this change.

       -n     Get  or  set  the  "ignore_write_errors"  flag  in  the driver.  Do NOT play with this without
              grokking the driver source code first.

       -N     Get/set max visible number of sectors, also known as the Host Protected Area setting.  Without
              a parameter, -N displays the current setting, which is reported as two values: the first gives
              the current max sectors setting, and the second shows the native (real) hardware limit for the
              disk.  The difference between these two values indicates how many sectors of the disk are cur‐
              rently hidden from the operating system, in the form of a Host  Protected  Area  (HPA).   This
              area is often used by computer makers to hold diagnostic software, and/or a copy of the origi‐
              nally provided operating system for recovery purposes.  Another possible use is  to  hide  the
              true capacity of a very large disk from a BIOS/system that cannot normally cope with drives of
              that size (eg. most current {2010} BIOSs cannot deal with drives larger than 2TB,  so  an  HPA
              could  be  used  to cause a 3TB drive to report itself as a 2TB drive).  To change the current
              max (VERY DANGEROUS, DATA LOSS IS EXTREMELY LIKELY),  a  new  value  should  be  provided  (in
              base10)  immediately  following the -N option.  This value is specified as a count of sectors,
              rather than the "max sector address" of the drive.  Drives have the  concept  of  a  temporary
              (volatile) setting which is lost on the next hardware reset, as well as a more permanent (non-
              volatile) value which survives resets and power cycles.  By default, -N affects only the  tem‐
              porary  (volatile) setting.  To change the permanent (non-volatile) value, prepend a leading p
              character immediately before the first digit of the value.  Drives are supposed to allow  only
              a  single  permanent change per session.  A hardware reset (or power cycle) is required before
              another permanent -N operation can succeed.  Note that any attempt to set this value may  fail
              if the disk is being accessed by other software at the same time.  This is because setting the
              value requires a pair of back-to-back drive commands, but there is  no  way  to  prevent  some
              other  command from being inserted between them by the kernel.  So if it fails initially, just
              try again.  Kernel support for -N is buggy for many adapter types across many kernel versions,
              in  that an incorrect (too small) max size value is sometimes reported.  As of the 2.6.27 ker‐
              nel, this does finally seem to be working on most hardware.

       --offset
              Offsets to given number of GiB (1024*1024*1024) when performing -t timings  of  device  reads.
              Speed  changes  (about  twice)  along  many  mechanical drives.  Usually the maximum is at the
              beginning, but not always.  Solid-state drives (SSDs) should show similar  timings  regardless
              of offset.

       -p     Attempt to reprogram the IDE interface chipset for the specified PIO mode, or attempt to auto-
              tune for the "best" PIO mode supported by the drive.  This feature is supported in the  kernel
              for only a few "known" chipsets, and even then the support is iffy at best.  Some IDE chipsets
              are unable to alter the PIO mode for a single drive, in which case this option may  cause  the
              PIO  mode  for both drives to be set.  Many IDE chipsets support either fewer or more than the
              standard six (0 to 5) PIO modes, so the exact speed setting that is actually implemented  will
              vary  by chipset/driver sophistication.  Use with extreme caution!  This feature includes zero
              protection for the unwary, and an unsuccessful outcome may result in severe filesystem corrup‐
              tion!

       -P     Set the maximum sector count for the drive´s internal prefetch mechanism.  Not all drives sup‐
              port this feature, and it was dropped from the official spec as of ATA-4.

       --prefer-ata12
              When using the SAT (SCSI ATA Translation) protocol, hdparm normally prefers to use the 16-byte
              command  format  whenever  possible.   But some USB drive enclosures don't work correctly with
              16-byte commands.  This option can be used to force use of the smaller 12-byte command  format
              with such drives.  hdparm will still revert to 16-byte commands for things that cannot be done
              with the 12-byte format (e.g. sector accesses beyond 28-bits).

       -q     Handle the next option quietly, suppressing normal output (but not error messages).   This  is
              useful  for  reducing screen clutter when running from system startup scripts.  Not applicable
              to the -i or -v or -t or -T options.

       -Q     Get or set the device's command queue_depth, if supported by the hardware.   This  only  works
              with  2.6.xx  (or  later)  kernels, and only with device and driver combinations which support
              changing the queue_depth.  For SATA disks, this is the  Native  Command  Queuing  (NCQ)  queue
              depth.

       -r     Get/set  read-only  flag  for  the  device.  When set, Linux disallows write operations on the
              device.

       -R     Get/set Write-Read-Verify feature, if the drive supports it.   Usage:  -R0  (disable)  or  -R1
              (enable).   This  feature  is  intended to have the drive firmware automatically read-back any
              data that is written by software, to verify that the data was successfully written.   This  is
              generally overkill, and can slow down disk writes by as much as a factor of two (or more).

       --read-sector
              Reads from the specified sector number, and dumps the contents in hex to standard output.  The
              sector number must be given (base10) after this option.  hdparm will issue  a  low-level  read
              (completely  bypassing  the usual block layer read/write mechanisms) for the specified sector.
              This can be used to definitively check whether a given sector is  bad  (media  error)  or  not
              (doing so through the usual mechanisms can sometimes give false positives).

       --repair-sector
              This is an alias for the --write-sector option.  VERY DANGEROUS.

       -s     Enable/disable  the  power-on  in standby feature, if supported by the drive.  VERY DANGEROUS.
              Do not use unless you are absolutely certain that both the system BIOS (or firmware)  and  the
              operating  system  kernel  (Linux >= 2.6.22) support probing for drives that use this feature.
              When enabled, the drive is powered-up in the standby mode to allow the controller to  sequence
              the  spin-up of devices, reducing the instantaneous current draw burden when many drives share
              a power supply.  Primarily for use in large RAID setups.  This feature is usually disabled and
              the  drive  is powered-up in the active mode (see -C above).  Note that a drive may also allow
              enabling this feature by a jumper.  Some SATA drives support the control of  this  feature  by
              pin  11  of  the  SATA power connector. In these cases, this command may be unsupported or may
              have no effect.

       -S     Put the drive into idle (low-power) mode, and also set the standby (spindown) timeout for  the
              drive.   This  timeout  value is used by the drive to determine how long to wait (with no disk
              activity) before turning off the spindle motor to save power.  Under such  circumstances,  the
              drive  may  take  as  long  as  30 seconds to respond to a subsequent disk access, though most
              drives are much quicker.  The encoding of the timeout value is somewhat peculiar.  A value  of
              zero  means  "timeouts  are  disabled":  the device will not automatically enter standby mode.
              Values from 1 to 240 specify multiples of 5 seconds, yielding timeouts from 5  seconds  to  20
              minutes.   Values  from 241 to 251 specify from 1 to 11 units of 30 minutes, yielding timeouts
              from 30 minutes to 5.5 hours.  A value of 252 signifies a timeout of 21 minutes.  A  value  of
              253  sets  a  vendor-defined  timeout  period  between  8  and  12 hours, and the value 254 is
              reserved.  255 is interpreted as 21 minutes plus 15 seconds.  Note that some older drives  may
              have very different interpretations of these values.

       -t     Perform  timings  of  device  reads  for  benchmark  and  comparison purposes.  For meaningful
              results, this operation should be repeated 2-3 times on an otherwise inactive system (no other
              active processes) with at least a couple of megabytes of free memory.  This displays the speed
              of reading through the buffer cache to the disk without any prior caching of data.  This  mea‐
              surement is an indication of how fast the drive can sustain sequential data reads under Linux,
              without any filesystem overhead.  To ensure accurate measurements, the buffer cache is flushed
              during the processing of -t using the BLKFLSBUF ioctl.

       -T     Perform timings of cache reads for benchmark and comparison purposes.  For meaningful results,
              this operation should be repeated 2-3 times on an otherwise inactive system (no  other  active
              processes)  with  at  least  a couple of megabytes of free memory.  This displays the speed of
              reading directly from the Linux buffer cache without disk access.  This measurement is  essen‐
              tially an indication of the throughput of the processor, cache, and memory of the system under
              test.

       --trim-sector-ranges
              For Solid State Drives (SSDs).  EXCEPTIONALLY DANGEROUS. DO NOT USE THIS OPTION!!   Tells  the
              drive  firmware  to  discard  unneeded  data  sectors,  destroying any data that may have been
              present within them.  This makes those sectors available for immediate use by  the  firmware's
              garbage  collection  mechanism,  to  improve  scheduling for wear-leveling of the flash media.
              This option expects one or more sector range pairs immediately after the option: an LBA start‐
              ing  address, a colon, and a sector count (max 65535), with no intervening spaces.  EXCEPTION‐
              ALLY DANGEROUS. DO NOT USE THIS OPTION!!

              E.g.  hdparm --trim-sector-ranges 1000:4 7894:16 /dev/sdz

       --trim-sector-ranges-stdin
              Identical to --trim-sector-ranges above, except the list of lba:count pairs is read from stdin
              rather  than  being  specified  on  the command line.  This can be used to avoid problems with
              excessively long command lines.  It also permits batching of many more sector ranges into sin‐
              gle commands to the drive, up to the currently configured transfer limit (max_sectors_kb).

       -u     Get/set  the interrupt-unmask flag for the drive.  A setting of 1 permits the driver to unmask
              other interrupts during processing of a disk interrupt, which greatly improves Linux´s respon‐
              siveness  and  eliminates  "serial  port overrun" errors.  Use this feature with caution: some
              drive/controller combinations do not tolerate the increased I/O latencies possible  when  this
              feature  is  enabled, resulting in massive filesystem corruption.  In particular, CMD-640B and
              RZ1000 (E)IDE interfaces can be unreliable (due to a hardware flaw) when this option  is  used
              with  kernel versions earlier than 2.0.13.  Disabling the IDE prefetch feature of these inter‐
              faces (usually a BIOS/CMOS setting) provides a safe fix for the problem for use  with  earlier
              kernels.

       -v     Display some basic settings, similar to -acdgkmur for IDE.  This is also the default behaviour
              when no options are specified.

       -V     Display program version and exit immediately.

       --verbose
              Display extra diagnostics from some commands.

       -w     Perform a device reset (DANGEROUS).  Do NOT use this option.  It exists  for  unlikely  situa‐
              tions  where  a reboot might otherwise be required to get a confused drive back into a useable
              state.

       --write-sector
              Writes zeros to the specified sector number.  VERY DANGEROUS.  The sector number must be given
              (base10)  after  this  option.   hdparm will issue a low-level write (completely bypassing the
              usual block layer read/write mechanisms) to the specified sector.  This can be used to force a
              drive to repair a bad sector (media error).

       -W     Get/set the IDE/SATA drive´s write-caching feature.

       -X     Set  the  IDE transfer mode for (E)IDE/ATA drives.  This is typically used in combination with
              -d1 when enabling DMA to/from a drive on a supported interface chipset, where -X mdma2 is used
              to  select  multiword  DMA  mode2  transfers  and -X sdma1 is used to select simple mode 1 DMA
              transfers.  With systems which support UltraDMA burst timings, -X  udma2  is  used  to  select
              UltraDMA  mode2 transfers (you´ll need to prepare the chipset for UltraDMA beforehand).  Apart
              from that, use of this option is seldom necessary since most/all modern IDE drives default  to
              their  fastest  PIO  transfer  mode  at power-on.  Fiddling with this can be both needless and
              risky.  On drives which support alternate transfer modes, -X can be used to switch the mode of
              the  drive only.  Prior to changing the transfer mode, the IDE interface should be jumpered or
              programmed (see -p option) for the new mode setting to prevent loss and/or corruption of data.
              Use  this  with extreme caution!  For the PIO (Programmed Input/Output) transfer modes used by
              Linux, this value is simply the desired PIO mode number plus 8.  Thus, a value of 09 sets  PIO
              mode1,  10  enables  PIO  mode2,  and  11  selects PIO mode3.  Setting 00 restores the drive´s
              "default" PIO mode, and 01 disables IORDY.  For multiword DMA, the value used is  the  desired
              DMA mode number plus 32.  for UltraDMA, the value is the desired UltraDMA mode number plus 64.

       -y     Force  an IDE drive to immediately enter the low power consumption standby mode, usually caus‐
              ing it to spin down.  The current power mode status can be checked using the -C option.

       -Y     Force an IDE drive to immediately enter the lowest power consumption sleep mode, causing it to
              shut down completely.  A hard or soft reset is required before the drive can be accessed again
              (the Linux IDE driver will automatically handle issuing a reset if/when needed).  The  current
              power mode status can be checked using the -C option.

       -z     Force a kernel re-read of the partition table of the specified device(s).

       -Z     Disable  the  automatic  power-saving  function of certain Seagate drives (ST3xxx models?), to
              prevent them from idling/spinning-down at inconvenient times.

       ATA Security Feature Set

       These switches are DANGEROUS to experiment with, and might not work with some kernels.  USE  AT  YOUR
       OWN RISK.

       --security-help
              Display terse usage info for all of the --security-* options.

       --security-freeze
              Freeze  the  drive´s security settings.  The drive does not accept any security commands until
              next power-on reset.  Use this function in combination with --security-unlock to protect drive
              from  any  attempt  to  set a new password. Can be used standalone, too.  No other options are
              permitted on the command line with this one.

       --security-prompt-for-password
              Prompt for the --security PWD rather than getting from the command  line  args.   This  avoids
              having passwords show up in shell history or in /proc/self/cmdline during execution.

       --security-unlock PWD
              Unlock the drive, using password PWD.  Password is given as an ASCII string and is padded with
              NULs to reach 32 bytes.  The applicable drive password  is  selected  with  the  --user-master
              switch  (default is "user" password).  No other options are permitted on the command line with
              this one.

       --security-set-pass PWD
              Lock the drive, using password PWD (Set Password) (DANGEROUS).  Password is given as an  ASCII
              string  and  is  padded  with NULs to reach 32 bytes.  Use the special password NULL to set an
              empty password.  The applicable drive password  is  selected  with  the  --user-master  switch
              (default is "user" password) and the applicable security mode with the --security-mode switch.
              No other options are permitted on the command line with this one.

       --security-disable PWD
              Disable drive locking, using password PWD.  Password is given as an ASCII string and is padded
              with NULs to reach 32 bytes.  The applicable drive password is selected with the --user-master
              switch (default is "user" password).  No other options are permitted on the command line  with
              this one.

       --security-erase PWD
              Erase  (locked)  drive,  using password PWD (DANGEROUS).  Password is given as an ASCII string
              and is padded with NULs to reach 32 bytes.  Use the special  password  NULL  to  represent  an
              empty  password.   The  applicable  drive  password  is selected with the --user-master switch
              (default is "user" password).  No other options are permitted on the command  line  with  this
              one.

       --security-erase-enhanced PWD
              Enhanced  erase (locked) drive, using password PWD (DANGEROUS).  Password is given as an ASCII
              string and is padded with NULs to reach 32 bytes.  The applicable drive password  is  selected
              with the --user-master switch (default is "user" password).  No other options are permitted on
              the command line with this one.

       --user-master USER
              Specifies which password (user/master) to select.  Defaults to user password.  Only useful  in
              combination  with --security-unlock, --security-set-pass, --security-disable, --security-erase
              or --security-erase-enhanced.
                      u       user password
                      m       master password

       --security-mode MODE
              Specifies which security mode (high/maximum) to set.  Defaults to high.  Only useful in combi‐
              nation with --security-set-pass.
                      h       high security
                      m       maximum security

              THIS FEATURE IS EXPERIMENTAL AND NOT WELL TESTED. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK.

FILES
       /etc/hdparm.conf

BUGS
       As noted above, the -m sectcount and -u 1 options should be used with caution at first, preferably on
       a read-only filesystem.  Most drives work well with these features, but a few drive/controller combi‐
       nations are not 100% compatible.  Filesystem corruption may result.  Backup everything before experi‐
       menting!

       Some options (e.g. -r for SCSI) may not work with old kernels as necessary ioctl()´s  were  not  sup‐
       ported.

       Although  this  utility is intended primarily for use with SATA/IDE hard disk devices, several of the
       options are also valid (and permitted) for use with SCSI hard disk devices  and  MFM/RLL  hard  disks
       with XT interfaces.

       The  Linux kernel up until 2.6.12 (and probably later) doesn´t handle the security unlock and disable
       commands gracefully and will segfault and in some cases even panic.  The  security  commands  however
       might  indeed have been executed by the drive. This poor kernel behaviour makes the PIO data security
       commands rather useless at the moment.

       Note that the "security erase" and "security disable" commands have been implemented as two  consecu‐
       tive  PIO data commands and will not succeed on a locked drive because the second command will not be
       issued after the segfault.  See the code for hints how patch it to work around this problem.  Despite
       the  segfault  it  is often still possible to run two instances of hdparm consecutively and issue the
       two necessary commands that way.

AUTHOR
       hdparm has been written by Mark Lord <mlord@pobox.com>, the original primary developer and maintainer
       of  the  (E)IDE driver for Linux, and current contributor to the libata subsystem, along with sugges‐
       tions and patches from many netfolk.

       The disable Seagate auto-powersaving code is courtesy of Tomi Leppikangas(tomilepp@paju.oulu.fi).

       Security freeze command by Benjamin Benz, 2005.

       PIO data out security commands by Leonard den Ottolander, 2005.  Some other parts  by  Benjamin  Benz
       and others.

SEE ALSO
       http://www.t13.org/ Technical Committee T13 AT Attachment (ATA/ATAPI) Interface.

       http://www.serialata.org/ Serial ATA International Organization.

       http://www.compactflash.org/ CompactFlash Association.

Version 9.54                                    February 2018                                      HDPARM(8)
