IFCONFIG(8)                          Linux System Administrator's Manual                         IFCONFIG(8)

NAME
       ifconfig - configure a network interface

SYNOPSIS
       ifconfig [-v] [-a] [-s] [interface]
       ifconfig [-v] interface [aftype] options | address ...

DESCRIPTION
       Ifconfig is used to configure the kernel-resident network interfaces.  It is used at boot time to set
       up interfaces as necessary.  After that, it is usually only needed when debugging or when system tun‐
       ing is needed.

       If  no  arguments  are  given, ifconfig displays the status of the currently active interfaces.  If a
       single interface argument is given, it displays the status of the given interface only; if  a  single
       -a argument is given, it displays the status of all interfaces, even those that are down.  Otherwise,
       it configures an interface.

Address Families
       If the first argument after the interface name is recognized as the name of a supported address  fam‐
       ily,  that address family is used for decoding and displaying all protocol addresses.  Currently sup‐
       ported address families include inet (TCP/IP, default), inet6 (IPv6), ax25 (AMPR Packet  Radio),  ddp
       (Appletalk  Phase 2), ipx (Novell IPX) and netrom (AMPR Packet radio).  All numbers supplied as parts
       in IPv4 dotted decimal notation may be decimal, octal, or hexadecimal, as  specified  in  the  ISO  C
       standard  (that  is,  a leading 0x or 0X implies hexadecimal; otherwise, a leading '0' implies octal;
       otherwise, the number is interpreted as decimal). Use of hexadecimal and octal numbers  is  not  RFC-
       compliant and therefore its use is discouraged.

OPTIONS
       -a     display all interfaces which are currently available, even if down

       -s     display a short list (like netstat -i)

       -v     be more verbose for some error conditions

       interface
              The name of the interface.  This is usually a driver name followed by a unit number, for exam‐
              ple eth0 for the first Ethernet interface. If your kernel supports alias interfaces,  you  can
              specify  them  with syntax like eth0:0 for the first alias of eth0. You can use them to assign
              more addresses. To delete an alias interface use ifconfig eth0:0 down.  Note: for every  scope
              (i.e.  same  net  with address/netmask combination) all aliases are deleted, if you delete the
              first (primary).

       up     This flag causes the interface to be activated.  It is implicitly specified if an  address  is
              assigned  to  the  interface;  you can suppress this behavior when using an alias interface by
              appending an - to the alias (e.g.  eth0:0-).  It  is  also  suppressed  when  using  the  IPv4
              0.0.0.0 address as the kernel will use this to implicitly delete alias interfaces.

       down   This flag causes the driver for this interface to be shut down.

       [-]arp Enable or disable the use of the ARP protocol on this interface.

       [-]promisc
              Enable or disable the promiscuous mode of the interface.  If selected, all packets on the net‐
              work will be received by the interface.

       [-]allmulti
              Enable or disable all-multicast mode.  If selected, all multicast packets on the network  will
              be received by the interface.

       mtu N  This parameter sets the Maximum Transfer Unit (MTU) of an interface.

       dstaddr addr
              Set  the remote IP address for a point-to-point link (such as PPP).  This keyword is now obso‐
              lete; use the pointopoint keyword instead.

       netmask addr
              Set the IP network mask for this interface.  This value defaults to the usual class A, B or  C
              network mask (as derived from the interface IP address), but it can be set to any value.

       add addr/prefixlen
              Add an IPv6 address to an interface.

       del addr/prefixlen
              Remove an IPv6 address from an interface.

       tunnel ::aa.bb.cc.dd
              Create a new SIT (IPv6-in-IPv4) device, tunnelling to the given destination.

       irq addr
              Set  the interrupt line used by this device.  Not all devices can dynamically change their IRQ
              setting.

       io_addr addr
              Set the start address in I/O space for this device.

       mem_start addr
              Set the start address for shared memory used by this device.  Only a few devices need this.

       media type
              Set the physical port or medium type to be used by the device.  Not  all  devices  can  change
              this  setting,  and  those that can vary in what values they support.  Typical values for type
              are 10base2 (thin Ethernet), 10baseT (twisted-pair  10Mbps  Ethernet),  AUI  (external  trans‐
              ceiver)  and  so  on.  The special medium type of auto can be used to tell the driver to auto-
              sense the media.  Again, not all drivers can do this.

       [-]broadcast [addr]
              If the address argument is given, set the protocol broadcast address for this interface.  Oth‐
              erwise, set (or clear) the IFF_BROADCAST flag for the interface.

       [-]pointopoint [addr]
              This keyword enables the point-to-point mode of an interface, meaning that it is a direct link
              between two machines with nobody else listening on it.
              If the address argument is also given, set the protocol address of the other side of the link,
              just like the obsolete dstaddr keyword does.  Otherwise, set or clear the IFF_POINTOPOINT flag
              for the interface.

       hw class address
              Set the hardware address of this interface, if the device driver supports this operation.  The
              keyword  must be followed by the name of the hardware class and the printable ASCII equivalent
              of the hardware address.  Hardware classes currently supported include ether (Ethernet),  ax25
              (AMPR AX.25), ARCnet and netrom (AMPR NET/ROM).

       multicast
              Set the multicast flag on the interface. This should not normally be needed as the drivers set
              the flag correctly themselves.

       address
              The IP address to be assigned to this interface.

       txqueuelen length
              Set the length of the transmit queue of the device. It is useful to set this to  small  values
              for slower devices with a high latency (modem links, ISDN) to prevent fast bulk transfers from
              disturbing interactive traffic like telnet too much.

NOTES
       Since kernel release 2.2 there are no explicit interface statistics for alias interfaces anymore. The
       statistics  printed  for the original address are shared with all alias addresses on the same device.
       If you want per-address statistics you should add explicit accounting rules for the address using the
       iptables(8) command.

       Interrupt  problems with Ethernet device drivers fail with EAGAIN (SIOCSIIFLAGS: Resource temporarily
       unavailable) it  is  most  likely  a  interrupt  conflict.  See  http://www.scyld.com/expert/irq-con‐
       flict.html for more information.

FILES
       /proc/net/dev
       /proc/net/if_inet6

BUGS
       Ifconfig  uses  the  ioctl  access  method to get the full address information, which limits hardware
       addresses to 8 bytes.  Because Infiniband hardware address has 20 bytes, only the first 8  bytes  are
       displayed correctly.  Please use ip link command from iproute2 package to display link layer informa‐
       tions including the hardware address.

       While appletalk DDP and IPX addresses will be displayed they cannot be altered by this command.

SEE ALSO
       route(8), netstat(8), arp(8), rarp(8), iptables(8), ifup(8), interfaces(5).
       http://physics.nist.gov/cuu/Units/binary.html - Prefixes for binary multiples

AUTHORS
       Fred N. van Kempen, <waltje@uwalt.nl.mugnet.org>
       Alan Cox, <Alan.Cox@linux.org>
       Phil Blundell, <Philip.Blundell@pobox.com>
       Andi Kleen
       Bernd Eckenfels, <net-tools@lina.inka.de>

net-tools                                        2008-10-03                                      IFCONFIG(8)
