IPCS(1)                                         User Commands                                        IPCS(1)

NAME
       ipcs - show information on IPC facilities

SYNOPSIS
       ipcs [options]

DESCRIPTION
       ipcs  shows  information  on the inter-process communication facilities for which the calling process
       has read access.  By default it shows information about all three resources: shared memory  segments,
       message queues, and semaphore arrays.

OPTIONS
       -i, --id id
              Show  full details on just the one resource element identified by id.  This option needs to be
              combined with one of the three resource options: -m, -q or -s.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

   Resource options
       -m, --shmems
              Write information about active shared memory segments.

       -q, --queues
              Write information about active message queues.

       -s, --semaphores
              Write information about active semaphore sets.

       -a, --all
              Write information about all three resources (default).

   Output formats
       Of these options only one takes effect: the last one specified.

       -c, --creator
              Show creator and owner.

       -l, --limits
              Show resource limits.

       -p, --pid
              Show PIDs of creator and last operator.

       -t, --time
              Write time information.  The time of the last control operation that changed the  access  per‐
              missions  for  all facilities, the time of the last msgsnd(2) and msgrcv(2) operations on mes‐
              sage queues, the time of the last shmat(2) and shmdt(2) operations on shared memory,  and  the
              time of the last semop(2) operation on semaphores.

       -u, --summary
              Show status summary.

   Representation
       These affect only the -l (--limits) option.

       -b, --bytes
              Print sizes in bytes.

       --human
              Print sizes in human-readable format.

SEE ALSO
       ipcmk(1), ipcrm(1), msgrcv(2), msgsnd(2), semget(2), semop(2), shmat(2), shmdt(2), shmget(2)

CONFORMING TO
       The Linux ipcs utility is not fully compatible to the POSIX ipcs utility.  The Linux version does not
       support the POSIX -a, -b and -o options, but does support the -l and -u options not defined by POSIX.
       A portable application shall not use the -a, -b, -o, -l, and -u options.

AUTHOR
       Krishna Balasubramanian ⟨balasub@cis.ohio-state.edu⟩

AVAILABILITY
       The  ipcs  command  is  part  of  the  util-linux  package and is available from Linux Kernel Archive
       ⟨https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/⟩.

util-linux                                        July 2014                                          IPCS(1)
