IPTABLES(8)                                    iptables 1.6.1                                    IPTABLES(8)

NAME
       iptables/ip6tables — administration tool for IPv4/IPv6 packet filtering and NAT

SYNOPSIS
       iptables [-t table] {-A|-C|-D} chain rule-specification

       ip6tables [-t table] {-A|-C|-D} chain rule-specification

       iptables [-t table] -I chain [rulenum] rule-specification

       iptables [-t table] -R chain rulenum rule-specification

       iptables [-t table] -D chain rulenum

       iptables [-t table] -S [chain [rulenum]]

       iptables [-t table] {-F|-L|-Z} [chain [rulenum]] [options...]

       iptables [-t table] -N chain

       iptables [-t table] -X [chain]

       iptables [-t table] -P chain target

       iptables [-t table] -E old-chain-name new-chain-name

       rule-specification = [matches...] [target]

       match = -m matchname [per-match-options]

       target = -j targetname [per-target-options]

DESCRIPTION
       Iptables  and  ip6tables are used to set up, maintain, and inspect the tables of IPv4 and IPv6 packet
       filter rules in the Linux kernel.  Several different tables may be defined.  Each  table  contains  a
       number of built-in chains and may also contain user-defined chains.

       Each  chain is a list of rules which can match a set of packets.  Each rule specifies what to do with
       a packet that matches.  This is called a `target', which may be a jump to a user-defined chain in the
       same table.

TARGETS
       A firewall rule specifies criteria for a packet and a target.  If the packet does not match, the next
       rule in the chain is examined; if it does match, then the next rule is specified by the value of  the
       target,  which  can  be  the  name  of  a  user-defined  chain, one of the targets described in ipta‐
       bles-extensions(8), or one of the special values ACCEPT, DROP or RETURN.

       ACCEPT means to let the packet through.  DROP means to drop the packet on the  floor.   RETURN  means
       stop  traversing  this chain and resume at the next rule in the previous (calling) chain.  If the end
       of a built-in chain is reached or a rule in a built-in chain with target RETURN is matched, the  tar‐
       get specified by the chain policy determines the fate of the packet.

TABLES
       There are currently five independent tables (which tables are present at any time depends on the ker‐
       nel configuration options and which modules are present).

       -t, --table table
              This option specifies the packet matching table which the command should operate on.   If  the
              kernel is configured with automatic module loading, an attempt will be made to load the appro‐
              priate module for that table if it is not already there.

              The tables are as follows:

              filter:
                  This is the default table (if no -t option is passed). It  contains  the  built-in  chains
                  INPUT  (for  packets destined to local sockets), FORWARD (for packets being routed through
                  the box), and OUTPUT (for locally-generated packets).

              nat:
                  This table is consulted when a packet that creates a new connection  is  encountered.   It
                  consists  of  four  built-ins:  PREROUTING (for altering packets as soon as they come in),
                  INPUT (for altering packets destined for local sockets), OUTPUT (for altering locally-gen‐
                  erated packets before routing), and POSTROUTING (for altering packets as they are about to
                  go out).  IPv6 NAT support is available since kernel 3.7.

              mangle:
                  This table is used for specialized packet alteration.  Until  kernel  2.4.17  it  had  two
                  built-in chains: PREROUTING (for altering incoming packets before routing) and OUTPUT (for
                  altering locally-generated packets before routing).   Since  kernel  2.4.18,  three  other
                  built-in  chains  are also supported: INPUT (for packets coming into the box itself), FOR‐
                  WARD (for altering packets being routed through the box), and  POSTROUTING  (for  altering
                  packets as they are about to go out).

              raw:
                  This  table is used mainly for configuring exemptions from connection tracking in combina‐
                  tion with the NOTRACK target.  It registers at the netfilter hooks  with  higher  priority
                  and is thus called before ip_conntrack, or any other IP tables.  It provides the following
                  built-in chains: PREROUTING (for packets arriving via any network interface)  OUTPUT  (for
                  packets generated by local processes)

              security:
                  This  table  is  used  for  Mandatory Access Control (MAC) networking rules, such as those
                  enabled by the SECMARK and CONNSECMARK targets.  Mandatory Access Control  is  implemented
                  by  Linux Security Modules such as SELinux.  The security table is called after the filter
                  table, allowing any Discretionary Access Control (DAC) rules in the filter table  to  take
                  effect  before  MAC  rules.  This table provides the following built-in chains: INPUT (for
                  packets coming into the box itself), OUTPUT (for altering locally-generated packets before
                  routing), and FORWARD (for altering packets being routed through the box).

OPTIONS
       The  options  that  are  recognized  by  iptables and ip6tables can be divided into several different
       groups.

   COMMANDS
       These options specify the desired action to perform. Only one of them can be specified on the command
       line  unless  otherwise  stated below. For long versions of the command and option names, you need to
       use only enough letters to ensure that iptables can differentiate it from all other options.

       -A, --append chain rule-specification
              Append one or more rules to the end of the selected chain.  When the source and/or destination
              names  resolve to more than one address, a rule will be added for each possible address combi‐
              nation.

       -C, --check chain rule-specification
              Check whether a rule matching the specification does exist in the selected chain. This command
              uses  the  same logic as -D to find a matching entry, but does not alter the existing iptables
              configuration and uses its exit code to indicate success or failure.

       -D, --delete chain rule-specification
       -D, --delete chain rulenum
              Delete one or more rules from the selected chain.  There are two versions of this command: the
              rule can be specified as a number in the chain (starting at 1 for the first rule) or a rule to
              match.

       -I, --insert chain [rulenum] rule-specification
              Insert one or more rules in the selected chain as the given rule number.  So, if the rule num‐
              ber  is  1, the rule or rules are inserted at the head of the chain.  This is also the default
              if no rule number is specified.

       -R, --replace chain rulenum rule-specification
              Replace a rule in the selected chain.  If the source and/or destination names resolve to  mul‐
              tiple addresses, the command will fail.  Rules are numbered starting at 1.

       -L, --list [chain]
              List  all  rules  in the selected chain.  If no chain is selected, all chains are listed. Like
              every other iptables command, it applies to the specified table (filter is  the  default),  so
              NAT rules get listed by
               iptables -t nat -n -L
              Please  note  that  it  is  often  used with the -n option, in order to avoid long reverse DNS
              lookups.  It is legal to specify the -Z (zero) option as well, in which case the chain(s) will
              be  atomically  listed and zeroed.  The exact output is affected by the other arguments given.
              The exact rules are suppressed until you use
               iptables -L -v
              or iptables-save(8).

       -S, --list-rules [chain]
              Print all rules in the selected chain.  If no chain is selected, all chains are  printed  like
              iptables-save. Like every other iptables command, it applies to the specified table (filter is
              the default).

       -F, --flush [chain]
              Flush the selected chain (all the chains in the table if none is given).  This  is  equivalent
              to deleting all the rules one by one.

       -Z, --zero [chain [rulenum]]
              Zero  the  packet  and byte counters in all chains, or only the given chain, or only the given
              rule in a chain. It is legal to specify the -L, --list (list) option as well, to see the coun‐
              ters immediately before they are cleared. (See above.)

       -N, --new-chain chain
              Create  a  new  user-defined  chain  by  the given name.  There must be no target of that name
              already.

       -X, --delete-chain [chain]
              Delete the optional user-defined chain specified.  There must be no references to  the  chain.
              If  there are, you must delete or replace the referring rules before the chain can be deleted.
              The chain must be empty, i.e. not contain any rules.  If no argument is given, it will attempt
              to delete every non-builtin chain in the table.

       -P, --policy chain target
              Set the policy for the built-in (non-user-defined) chain to the given target.  The policy tar‐
              get must be either ACCEPT or DROP.

       -E, --rename-chain old-chain new-chain
              Rename the user specified chain to the user supplied name.   This  is  cosmetic,  and  has  no
              effect on the structure of the table.

       -h     Help.  Give a (currently very brief) description of the command syntax.

   PARAMETERS
       The  following  parameters  make up a rule specification (as used in the add, delete, insert, replace
       and append commands).

       -4, --ipv4
              This option has no effect in iptables and iptables-restore.  If a rule using the -4 option  is
              inserted  with  (and only with) ip6tables-restore, it will be silently ignored. Any other uses
              will throw an error. This option allows IPv4 and IPv6 rules in a single rule file for use with
              both iptables-restore and ip6tables-restore.

       -6, --ipv6
              If  a  rule  using the -6 option is inserted with (and only with) iptables-restore, it will be
              silently ignored. Any other uses will throw an error. This option allows IPv4 and  IPv6  rules
              in  a  single rule file for use with both iptables-restore and ip6tables-restore.  This option
              has no effect in ip6tables and ip6tables-restore.

       [!] -p, --protocol protocol
              The protocol of the rule or of the packet to check.  The specified protocol can be one of tcp,
              udp,  udplite,  icmp,  icmpv6,esp,  ah,  sctp, mh or the special keyword "all", or it can be a
              numeric value, representing one of these protocols or a different one.  A protocol  name  from
              /etc/protocols  is  also  allowed.   A "!" argument before the protocol inverts the test.  The
              number zero is equivalent to all. "all" will match with all protocols and is taken as  default
              when  this  option is omitted.  Note that, in ip6tables, IPv6 extension headers except esp are
              not allowed.  esp and ipv6-nonext can be used with Kernel version 2.6.11 or later.  The number
              zero is equivalent to all, which means that you cannot test the protocol field for the value 0
              directly. To match on a HBH header, even if it were the last, you cannot use -p 0, but  always
              need -m hbh.

       [!] -s, --source address[/mask][,...]
              Source  specification.  Address can be either a network name, a hostname, a network IP address
              (with /mask), or a plain IP address. Hostnames will be resolved once only, before the rule  is
              submitted  to  the  kernel.  Please note that specifying any name to be resolved with a remote
              query such as DNS is a really bad idea.  The mask can be either an ipv4 network mask (for ipt‐
              ables)  or  a plain number, specifying the number of 1's at the left side of the network mask.
              Thus, an iptables mask of 24 is equivalent  to  255.255.255.0.   A  "!"  argument  before  the
              address  specification  inverts  the sense of the address. The flag --src is an alias for this
              option.  Multiple addresses can be specified, but this will expand  to  multiple  rules  (when
              adding with -A), or will cause multiple rules to be deleted (with -D).

       [!] -d, --destination address[/mask][,...]
              Destination  specification.   See  the  description  of  the  -s  (source) flag for a detailed
              description of the syntax.  The flag --dst is an alias for this option.

       -m, --match match
              Specifies a match to use, that is, an extension module that tests for a specific property. The
              set  of  matches  make up the condition under which a target is invoked. Matches are evaluated
              first to last as specified on the command line and work in short-circuit fashion, i.e. if  one
              extension yields false, evaluation will stop.

       -j, --jump target
              This  specifies the target of the rule; i.e., what to do if the packet matches it.  The target
              can be a user-defined chain (other than the one this rule is in), one of the  special  builtin
              targets  which  decide  the  fate  of  the packet immediately, or an extension (see EXTENSIONS
              below).  If this option is omitted in a rule (and -g is not used), then matching the rule will
              have no effect on the packet's fate, but the counters on the rule will be incremented.

       -g, --goto chain
              This  specifies  that  the  processing  should  continue in a user specified chain. Unlike the
              --jump option return will not continue processing in this chain but instead in the chain  that
              called us via --jump.

       [!] -i, --in-interface name
              Name  of  an  interface  via which a packet was received (only for packets entering the INPUT,
              FORWARD and PREROUTING chains).  When the "!" argument is used before the interface name,  the
              sense  is inverted.  If the interface name ends in a "+", then any interface which begins with
              this name will match.  If this option is omitted, any interface name will match.

       [!] -o, --out-interface name
              Name of an interface via which a packet is going to be sent (for packets entering the FORWARD,
              OUTPUT  and POSTROUTING chains).  When the "!" argument is used before the interface name, the
              sense is inverted.  If the interface name ends in a "+", then any interface which begins  with
              this name will match.  If this option is omitted, any interface name will match.

       [!] -f, --fragment
              This  means that the rule only refers to second and further IPv4 fragments of fragmented pack‐
              ets.  Since there is no way to tell the source or destination ports of such a packet (or  ICMP
              type),  such a packet will not match any rules which specify them.  When the "!" argument pre‐
              cedes the "-f" flag, the rule will only match head fragments, or  unfragmented  packets.  This
              option is IPv4 specific, it is not available in ip6tables.

       -c, --set-counters packets bytes
              This  enables  the  administrator to initialize the packet and byte counters of a rule (during
              INSERT, APPEND, REPLACE operations).

   OTHER OPTIONS
       The following additional options can be specified:

       -v, --verbose
              Verbose output.  This option makes the list command show the interface name, the rule  options
              (if  any),  and  the TOS masks.  The packet and byte counters are also listed, with the suffix
              'K', 'M' or 'G' for 1000, 1,000,000 and 1,000,000,000 multipliers respectively (but see the -x
              flag  to  change  this).   For  appending,  insertion,  deletion  and replacement, this causes
              detailed information on the rule or rules to be printed. -v may be specified multiple times to
              possibly emit more detailed debug statements.

       -w, --wait [seconds]
              Wait  for the xtables lock.  To prevent multiple instances of the program from running concur‐
              rently, an attempt will be made to obtain an exclusive lock at launch.  By default,  the  pro‐
              gram will exit if the lock cannot be obtained.  This option will make the program wait (indef‐
              initely or for optional seconds) until the exclusive lock can be obtained.

       -W, --wait-interval microseconds
              Interval to wait per each iteration.  When running latency sensitive applications, waiting for
              the  xtables  lock  for  extended  durations may not be acceptable. This option will make each
              iteration take the amount of time specified. The default interval is  1  second.  This  option
              only works with -w.

       -n, --numeric
              Numeric output.  IP addresses and port numbers will be printed in numeric format.  By default,
              the program will try to display them as host  names,  network  names,  or  services  (whenever
              applicable).

       -x, --exact
              Expand  numbers.  Display the exact value of the packet and byte counters, instead of only the
              rounded number in K's (multiples of 1000) M's  (multiples  of  1000K)  or  G's  (multiples  of
              1000M).  This option is only relevant for the -L command.

       --line-numbers
              When  listing  rules,  add  line  numbers to the beginning of each rule, corresponding to that
              rule's position in the chain.

       --modprobe=command
              When adding or inserting rules into a chain, use command to load any necessary  modules  (tar‐
              gets, match extensions, etc).

MATCH AND TARGET EXTENSIONS
       iptables  can  use  extended packet matching and target modules.  A list of these is available in the
       iptables-extensions(8) manpage.

DIAGNOSTICS
       Various error messages are printed to standard error.  The exit code is 0  for  correct  functioning.
       Errors  which  appear to be caused by invalid or abused command line parameters cause an exit code of
       2, and other errors cause an exit code of 1.

BUGS
       Bugs?  What's this? ;-) Well, you might want to have a look at http://bugzilla.netfilter.org/

COMPATIBILITY WITH IPCHAINS
       This iptables is very similar to ipchains by Rusty Russell.  The main difference is that  the  chains
       INPUT  and  OUTPUT are only traversed for packets coming into the local host and originating from the
       local host respectively.  Hence every packet only passes through one  of  the  three  chains  (except
       loopback  traffic,  which involves both INPUT and OUTPUT chains); previously a forwarded packet would
       pass through all three.

       The other main difference is that -i refers to the input interface; -o refers to  the  output  inter‐
       face, and both are available for packets entering the FORWARD chain.

       The  various  forms  of  NAT have been separated out; iptables is a pure packet filter when using the
       default `filter' table, with optional extension modules.  This should simplify much of  the  previous
       confusion  over the combination of IP masquerading and packet filtering seen previously.  So the fol‐
       lowing options are handled differently:
        -j MASQ
        -M -S
        -M -L
       There are several other changes in iptables.

SEE ALSO
       iptables-apply(8), iptables-save(8), iptables-restore(8), iptables-extensions(8),

       The packet-filtering-HOWTO details iptables usage for packet filtering, the  NAT-HOWTO  details  NAT,
       the  netfilter-extensions-HOWTO details the extensions that are not in the standard distribution, and
       the netfilter-hacking-HOWTO details the netfilter internals.
       See http://www.netfilter.org/.

AUTHORS
       Rusty Russell originally wrote iptables, in early consultation with Michael Neuling.

       Marc Boucher made Rusty abandon ipnatctl by lobbying for a generic packet selection framework in ipt‐
       ables,  then wrote the mangle table, the owner match, the mark stuff, and ran around doing cool stuff
       everywhere.

       James Morris wrote the TOS target, and tos match.

       Jozsef Kadlecsik wrote the REJECT target.

       Harald Welte wrote the ULOG and NFQUEUE target, the new libiptc,  as  well  as  the  TTL,  DSCP,  ECN
       matches and targets.

       The  Netfilter  Core  Team is: Jozsef Kadlecsik, Patrick McHardy, Pablo Neira Ayuso, Eric Leblond and
       Florian Westphal. Emeritus Core Team members are: Marc Boucher, Martin Josefsson,  Yasuyuki  Kozakai,
       James Morris, Harald Welte and Rusty Russell.

       Man page originally written by Herve Eychenne <rv@wallfire.org>.

VERSION
       This manual page applies to iptables/ip6tables 1.6.1.

iptables 1.6.1                                                                                   IPTABLES(8)
