LILO(8)                                      lilo documentation                                      LILO(8)

NAME
       lilo - install boot loader of LiLO

SYNOPSIS
       Main function:

        lilo

       Auxiliary uses:

        lilo -A        # activate/show active partition
        lilo -E        # edit header or update a bitmap file
        lilo -I        # inquire path name of current kernel
        lilo -M        # write a Master Boot Loader on a device
        lilo -q        # query map and show its content
        lilo -R        # set default command line for next reboot
        lilo -T        # tell more about specified topic
        lilo {-u|-U}   # uninstall LiLO boot loader

DESCRIPTION
       lilo installs a boot loader that will be activated the next time you boot your system. The default
       configuration file /etc/lilo.conf (see manpage lilo.conf(5)) will contain most options, but many,
       including those which override the configuration file, may be specified  on the command line.

OPTIONS
       -A master-device [N]
           Used with a single argument, inquire of active partition on device master-device; e.g. /dev/sda.
           With N==0: deactivate all partitions on the device. With N in the range [1..n]: activate the
           specified partition and deactivate all others.  Normally, only primary partitions [1..4] may be
           activated, but if the 'Extended Master Boot Loader' is present on the Master Boot Record (MBR) of
           the device (see the -M option), any partition may be made active.  Whether the actual OS in the
           partition will boot from a logical partition depends on the characteristics of the OS. LILO boot
           records for Linux may be booted from a logical partition.

       -b bootdev
           Set the boot device where the boot loader will be installed. For example "-b /dev/sda" set the
           Master Boot Record (MBR) on the first disk as boot device. "-b /dev/sdb5" set the first logical
           partition on the second disk as boot device.

       -B bitmap-file
           Define a bitmap file for the boot-time graphics screen, preferably one already pre-processed with
           the -E option.

       -c  Enable map compaction. This will merge read requests from adjacent sectors.  Speeds up the
           booting especially from floppy.

       -C config-file
           Set another pathname and filename for the configuration file. The default configuration file is
           /etc/lilo.conf.

       -d delay-time
           Set the delay time in tenths of a second ('20' = 2 sec) before automatically booting the first
           image. This give you time to interrupt the automatic boot process with: Shift, Alt, Ctrl,
           ScrollLock, or CapsLock. If interrupted, the boot: prompt will be displayed.

           This switch will be overridden by the appearance of prompt in the configuration file!

       -D label
           Use the kernel with the given label as the default kernel to boot, instead of the first one in
           the list of the configuration file.

       -E filename.xxx
           If the extension .xxx is .bmp, then take the file to be a bitmap graphic file for use in the
           bitmap= configuration file directive. Enter an interactive editor to create or update the
           color/placement information in the LILO header of this bitmap file. (see bmp-colors, bmp-table,
           and bmp-timer on the manual page for lilo.conf (5).)

           If .xxx is .dat then take this file to be a configuration file to set bitmap graphic parameters,
           which are transferred into the LILO header in the bitmap file of the same name.

           When a .bmp file is modified using a graphics editor (e.g. GIMP), the LILO header will be lost.
           It can be restored using the dat file, which is used as a text-based backup for the LILO header
           information.

       -f disk-tab
           Set another disk geometry parameter file. The default is /etc/disktab.

       -F  Override boot sector check for filesystems (e.g., swap, ext4, xfs ...) which might be destroyed
           by the installation of the LILO boot sector on the first sector of the partition if these
           filesystems use the first sector as a superblock.

           Compare with -P ignore, which bypasses certain partition table checks.

       -g  Generate 'cylinder/head/sector' (CHS geometric) disk addresses. Limited to cylinders up to 1023.
           Forces compatibility with very old versions of LILO (obsolete switch).

       -H  Override fatal halt if a RAID array does not have all disks active.

       -I label [D|a|i|k|r|R]
           label is taken to be the name of an image specified in the configuration file.  This command will
           print the path name of the corresponding kernel file, keytable file, initial ramdisk file, root
           specification, or "append=" string ("i", "k", "r", "R", or "a" option). The "D" option ignores
           the label parameter and prints the default "image=" label, or the first "image=" label is
           selected if no default image is set.

       -l  Generate 24-bit linear sector addresses instead of cylinder/head/sector addresses.

       -L  Generate 32-bit Logical Block Addresses (LBA) instead of cylinder/head/sector (CHS) addresses,
           allowing access to all partitions on disks with more than 1024 cylinders.  (This is the default
           geometry).

       -m map-file
           Use another map file instead of the default file /boot/map.

       -M master-device {mbr|ext}
           Install a Master Boot Record on the device specified as master-device, selecting the Standard or
           Extended Master Boot Loader per option. The primary partition table on master-device is
           undisturbed. If no valid Volume-ID (serial number) is present, then generate one and write it to
           the MBR. If mbr is set, the Standard Master Boot Loader will search partitions 1-4 for an active
           flag, and boot the flagged partition. Only one active flag is allowed. If ext is set, the search
           for an active partition will include logical partitions as well.  The presence of the Extended
           Master Boot Loader on the Master Boot Record (MBR = sector 0) of a disk affects the operation of
           the -A option.

       -p  Require interactive entry of all passwords set as "" in the configuration file.

       -P {fix|ignore|<global-option}>
           Fix or ignore 'corrupt' partition tables, e.g. partition tables with linear and
           cylinder/head/sector addresses that do not correspond. Always try ignore first, as fix will re-
           write the partition table, possibly destroying all partitions on the disk.

           ignore is also used to bypass the partition table check for partition types within the partition
           table which might not allow the installation of a LILO boot sector. Compare with the '-F' flag,
           which overrides the check of the actual boot sector.

           <global-option> allows the passing of any global option which may appear in the global section
           (top) of the  configuration file (/etc/lilo.conf).  For instance '-P nowarn' will pass the
           'nowarn' option, just as though 'nowarn' appeared in the configuration file (same as the '-w'
           switch).  Similarly '-P timeout=50' will add or override the 'timeout=' line in the
           configuration file. Note that the general -P switch actually duplicates a number of command line
           option switches. However, it is not strictly the same as some switches which cause an override of
           other options; e.g. '-g' (-P geometric), '-L' (-P lba32).

       -q  List the currently mapped files. lilo maintains a file, by default /boot/map, containing each
           name and location of the kernel(s) to boot. This option will list the names therein.  Use with -v
           for more detailed information about the installed boot loader.

       -r root-directory
           Before doing anything else, do a 'chroot' to the indicated directory. The new root directory must
           contain a /dev directory and may need a /boot directory.  It may also need an /etc/lilo.conf
           file.

       -R command-line
           This  option sets the default command for the boot loader for the next time it executes. After
           execution the boot loader will erase this line because it is a once-only command. It is typically
           used in reboot scripts, just before calling 'shutdown -r'. Used without any arguments, it will
           cancel a lock-ed or fallback command line.

           This Command line starts with image identifier (as shown during map file update), then space,
           then kernel parameters. The kernel parameters are appended to kernel command line constructed
           routinely. In either case, it there were parameters or not, such one-time command will be treated
           by loaders code, as if it is set at 'boot:' prompt. This could lead to 'password:' prompt at boot
           time. Be warned!  Refer to lilo.conf(5) for details.

       -s save-file
           When lilo writes a new boot sector, it preserves the former contents of the boot sector in a
           file, named by default /boot/boot.NNNN, where NNNN is the hexadecimal representation of the major
           and minor device numbers of the drive/partition.

           This option defines the backup save file in one of three ways: a save directory (default is
           '/boot') using the default filename 'boot.NNNN' in the defined directory; a pathname template to
           which '.NNNN' is appended (default would be '/boot/boot'); or the full pathname of the file,
           which must include the correct '.NNNN' suffix. When used with the -u option, the full file
           pathname must be set.

       -S save-file
           Normally lilo will not overwrite an existing boot sector save file. This options says that
           overwriting is to be forced. As with -s, the setting may be of a save directory, pathname
           template, or full pathname (which includes the '.NNNN' suffix).

       -t  Test only. Do not really write a new boot sector or map file. Use together with -v to find out
           what lilo is about to do.

       -T option
           Print out system information, some of it extracted from system bios. This is more convenient than
           booting the LILO diagnostic floppy on problem systems. option may be any one of the following:

            help          print a list of available diagnostics
            ChRul         list the partition types subject to
                            Change-Rules
            EBDA          list Extended BIOS Data Area information
            geom=<drive>  list drive geometry for bios drive;
                            e.g. geom=0x80
            geom          list drive geometry for all drives
            table=<drive> list the primary partition table;
                            e.g. table=/dev/sda
            video         list graphic modes available to boot
                            loader

       -u [device-name]
           Uninstall lilo by copying the saved boot sector back. The -s and -C switches may be used with
           this option. The device-name is optional. A time-stamp is checked.

       -U [device-name]
           The same as '-u', but do not check the time-stamp.

       -v [number]
           Increase verbosity. Giving one to five -v options will make lilo more verbose.  The number (range
           1..5) set verbosity level.

       -V  Print version number.

       -w[+|-]
           Used as -w or -w- to suppress warning messages. Used as '-w+' to override 'nowarn' in the
           configuration file and show warning messages.

       -x option
           For RAID installations  only. The option may be any of the keywords: none, auto, mbr, mbr-only,
           or a comma separated list of additional boot devices (no spaces allowed in the list).

           RAID installations write the boot record to the RAID partition. Conditional writing of MBRs may
           occur to aid in making the RAID set bootable in a recovery situation, but all default actions may
           be overridden. Action similar to previous versions is achieved using the '-x mbr-only' switch.

       -X  Reserved for LILO internal use. May produce different output for different LILO versions. The
           line beginning "CFLAGS=" will contain the compiler options used to generate this version of LILO.

       -z  When used with the '-M' switch, clears the Volume-ID.  Usually used in the following sequence to
           generate a new Volume-ID:

               lilo -z -M /dev/sda
               lilo -M /dev/sda

       -Z option
           Tells the boot installer whether special precautions need to be taken because the BIOS fails to
           pass the correct device code in DL (-Z0). Or may specify that the BIOS always gets DL right
           (-Z1). Corresponds to, and overrides, the configuration file option 'bios-passes-dl='.

CONFIG OPTIONS
       The above command line options correspond to the key words in the config file indicated below.

                     -b bootdev       boot=bootdev

                     -B file.bmp      bitmap=file.bmp
                     -c               compact
                     -d dsec          delay=dsec
                     -D label         default=label
                     -f file          disktab=file
                     -g               geometric
                     -l               linear
                     -L               lba32
                     -m mapfile       map=mapfile
                     -P fix           fix-table
                     -P ignore        ignore-table
                     -s file          backup=file
                     -S file          force-backup=file
                     -v [N]           verbose=N
                     -w               nowarn
                     -x option        raid-extra-boot=option
                     -Z option        bios-passes-dl=option

BOOT OPTIONS
       The  options  described  here may be specified at boot time on the command line when a kernel image
       is booted. These options are processed by LILO, and are removed from the command line before it is
       passed to the kernel, unless otherwise noted.

       lock
           Locks the command line, as though 'lock' had been defined in /etc/lilo.conf.

       mem=###[,K,M,G]
           Set the maximum memory in the system in bytes, kilobytes, megabytes or gigabytes.  This option is
           not removed from the command line, and is always passed to the kernel.

       nobd
           Suppresses the BIOS data check. This option is reserved for use with non-IBM-compliant BIOS's
           which hang with the lines:

               Loading...............
               BIOS data check

       vga=[ASK,EXT,EXTENDED,NORMAL,###,0x###]
           Allows overriding the default video mode upon kernel startup.

BOOT ERRORS
       The  boot process takes place in two stages. The first stage loader is a single sector, and is loaded
       by the BIOS or by the loader in the MBR. It loads the multi-sector second stage loader, but is very
       space limited. When the first stage  loader  gets  control, it types  the  letter 'L'; when it is
       ready to transfer control to the second stage loader it types the letter 'I'. If any error occurs,
       like a disk read error, it will put out a hexadecimal error code and then re-try the operation.  All
       hex error codes are BIOS return values, except for the lilo-generated codes: 40, 99 and 9A. A partial
       list of error codes follows:

           00  no error
           01  invalid disk command
           02  address mark not found
           03  disk write-protected
           04  sector not found
           06  floppy disk removed
           08  DMA overrun
           0A  bad sector flag
           0B  bad track flag
           20  controller failure
           40  seek failure (BIOS)
           40  cylinder>1023 (LILO)
           99  invalid second stage index sector (LILO)
           9A  no second stage loader signature (LILO)
           AA  drive not ready
           FF  sense operation failed

       Error code 40 is generated by the BIOS, or by LILO during the conversion of a linear (24-bit) disk
       address to a geometric (C:H:S) address. On older systems which do not support lba32 (32-bit)
       addressing, this error may also be generated.  Errors 99 and 9A usually mean the map file ('-m' or
       'map=') is not readable, likely because LILO was not re-run after some system change, or there is a
       geometry mismatch between what LILO used (lilo -v3 to display) and what is actually being used by the
       BIOS (one of the lilo diagnostic  disks, available in the source distribution, may be needed to
       diagnose this problem).

       When  the second stage loader has received control from the first stage, it prints the letter 'L',
       and when it has initialized itself, including verifying the "Descriptor Table" - the list of
       kernels/others to boot - it will print the letter "O", to form the full word "LILO", in uppercase.

       All second stage loader error messages are English text and try to pinpoint, more or less
       successfully, the point of failure.

BUGS
       Configuration file options 'backup' and 'force-backup' should specify a backup directory or backup
       file pathname template on all RAID installations. Use of an explicit filename may not allow multiple
       backup files to be created correctly.  It is best to use the  default mechanism, as it works
       correctly in all cases.

COPYRIGHT and LICENSE
        Copyright (C) 1992-1998 Werner Almesberger
        Copyright (C) 1999-2007 John Coffman
        Copyright (C) 2009-2014 Joachim Wiedorn

       Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without modification, are permitted under
       the terms of the BSD license found in the COPYING file.

AUTHOR
       lilo was written by:

        Werner Almesberger (version 0 to 21),
        John Coffman (version 21.2 to 22.8),
        Joachim Wiedorn (since version 23.0).

       This manual page was written by Werner Almesberger and Joachim Wiedorn <joodevel at joonet.de>.

SEE ALSO
       lilo.conf(5), liloconfig(8), lilo-uuid-diskid(8), mkrescue(8), fdisk(8), mkinitrd(8)

24.2                                             2015-11-22                                          LILO(8)
