LSCPU(1)                                        User Commands                                       LSCPU(1)

NAME
       lscpu - display information about the CPU architecture

SYNOPSIS
       lscpu [-a|-b|-c|-J] [-x] [-y] [-s directory] [-e[=list]|-p[=list]]
       lscpu -h|-V

DESCRIPTION
       lscpu gathers CPU architecture information from sysfs, /proc/cpuinfo and any applicable architecture-
       specific libraries (e.g. librtas on Powerpc).  The command output can be optimized for parsing or for
       easy  readability  by  humans.   The  information includes, for example, the number of CPUs, threads,
       cores, sockets, and Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) nodes.  There is also information about the  CPU
       caches and cache sharing, family, model, bogoMIPS, byte order, and stepping.

       In virtualized environments, the CPU architecture information displayed reflects the configuration of
       the guest operating system which is typically different from the physical (host) system.   On  archi‐
       tectures  that  support  retrieving  physical topology information, lscpu also displays the number of
       physical sockets, chips, cores in the host system.

       Options that result in an output table have a list argument.  Use this argument to customize the com‐
       mand  output.   Specify a comma-separated list of column labels to limit the output table to only the
       specified columns, arranged in the specified order.  See COLUMNS for a list of valid  column  labels.
       The column labels are not case sensitive.

       Not  all  columns  are  supported on all architectures.  If an unsupported column is specified, lscpu
       prints the column but does not provide any data for it.

   COLUMNS
       Note that topology elements (core, socket, etc.) use a sequential unique ID starting from  zero,  but
       CPU logical numbers follow the kernel where there is no guarantee of sequential numbering.

       CPU    The logical CPU number of a CPU as used by the Linux kernel.

       CORE   The logical core number.  A core can contain several CPUs.

       SOCKET The logical socket number.  A socket can contain several cores.

       BOOK   The logical book number.  A book can contain several sockets.

       DRAWER The logical drawer number.  A drawer can contain several books.

       NODE   The logical NUMA node number.  A node can contain several drawers.

       CACHE  Information about how caches are shared between CPUs.

       ADDRESS
              The physical address of a CPU.

       ONLINE Indicator that shows whether the Linux instance currently makes use of the CPU.

       CONFIGURED
              Indicator  that shows if the hypervisor has allocated the CPU to the virtual hardware on which
              the Linux instance runs.  CPUs that are configured can be set online by  the  Linux  instance.
              This  column  contains  data  only  if your hardware system and hypervisor support dynamic CPU
              resource allocation.

       POLARIZATION
              This column contains data for Linux instances that run on virtual hardware with  a  hypervisor
              that can switch the CPU dispatching mode (polarization).  The polarization can be:

              horizontal  The workload is spread across all available CPUs.

              vertical    The workload is concentrated on few CPUs.

              For vertical polarization, the column also shows the degree of concentration, high, medium, or
              low.  This column contains data only if your hardware system and hypervisor support CPU polar‐
              ization.

       MAXMHZ Maximum  megahertz value for the CPU. Useful when lscpu is used as hardware inventory informa‐
              tion gathering tool.  Notice that the megahertz value is dynamic, and driven by  CPU  governor
              depending on current resource need.

       MINMHZ Minimum megahertz value for the CPU.

OPTIONS
       -a, --all
              Include  lines  for  online  and offline CPUs in the output (default for -e).  This option may
              only be specified together with option -e or -p.

       -b, --online
              Limit the output to online CPUs (default for -p).  This option may only be specified  together
              with option -e or -p.

       -c, --offline
              Limit  the  output to offline CPUs.  This option may only be specified together with option -e
              or -p.

       -e, --extended[=list]
              Display the CPU information in human-readable format.

              If the list argument is omitted, all columns for which data is available are included  in  the
              command output.

              When  specifying  the  list  argument, the string of option, equal sign (=), and list must not
              contain any blanks or other whitespace.  Examples: '-e=cpu,node' or '--extended=cpu,node'.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.

       -J, --json
              Use JSON output format for the default summary or extended output (see --extended).

       -p, --parse[=list]
              Optimize the command output for easy parsing.

              If the list argument is omitted, the command output is compatible  with  earlier  versions  of
              lscpu.   In  this compatible format, two commas are used to separate CPU cache columns.  If no
              CPU caches are identified the cache column is omitted.
              If the list argument is used, cache columns are separated with a colon (:).

              When specifying the list argument, the string of option, equal sign (=),  and  list  must  not
              contain any blanks or other whitespace.  Examples: '-p=cpu,node' or '--parse=cpu,node'.

       -s, --sysroot directory
              Gather  CPU  data for a Linux instance other than the instance from which the lscpu command is
              issued.  The specified directory is the system root of the Linux instance to be inspected.

       -x, --hex
              Use hexadecimal masks for CPU sets (for example 0x3).  The default is to  print  the  sets  in
              list format (for example 0,1).

       -y, --physical
              Display  physical IDs for all columns with topology elements (core, socket, etc.).  Other than
              logical IDs, which are assigned by lscpu, physical IDs are platform-specific values  that  are
              provided by the kernel. Physical IDs are not necessarily unique and they might not be arranged
              sequentially.  If the kernel could not retrieve a physical ID for an element lscpu prints  the
              dash (-) character.

              The CPU logical numbers are not affected by this option.

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

BUGS
       The basic overview of CPU family, model, etc. is always based on the first CPU only.

       Sometimes in Xen Dom0 the kernel reports wrong data.

       On virtual hardware the number of cores per socket, etc. can be wrong.

AUTHOR
       Cai Qian <qcai@redhat.com>
       Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>
       Heiko Carstens <heiko.carstens@de.ibm.com>

SEE ALSO
       chcpu(8)

AVAILABILITY
       The  lscpu  command  is  part  of  the  util-linux  package  and  is  available from https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

util-linux                                      November 2015                                       LSCPU(1)
