LSEEK(2)                                  Linux Programmer's Manual                                 LSEEK(2)

NAME
       lseek - reposition read/write file offset

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/types.h>
       #include <unistd.h>

       off_t lseek(int fd, off_t offset, int whence);

DESCRIPTION
       lseek()  repositions the file offset of the open file description associated with the file descriptor
       fd to the argument offset according to the directive whence as follows:

       SEEK_SET
              The file offset is set to offset bytes.

       SEEK_CUR
              The file offset is set to its current location plus offset bytes.

       SEEK_END
              The file offset is set to the size of the file plus offset bytes.

       lseek() allows the file offset to be set beyond the end of the file (but this  does  not  change  the
       size  of  the file).  If data is later written at this point, subsequent reads of the data in the gap
       (a "hole") return null bytes ('\0') until data is actually written into the gap.

   Seeking file data and holes
       Since version 3.1, Linux supports the following additional values for whence:

       SEEK_DATA
              Adjust the file offset to the next location in the file greater than or equal to  offset  con‐
              taining data.  If offset points to data, then the file offset is set to offset.

       SEEK_HOLE
              Adjust  the file offset to the next hole in the file greater than or equal to offset.  If off‐
              set points into the middle of a hole, then the file offset is set to offset.  If there  is  no
              hole  past  offset, then the file offset is adjusted to the end of the file (i.e., there is an
              implicit hole at the end of any file).

       In both of the above cases, lseek() fails if offset points past the end of the file.

       These operations allow applications to map holes in a sparsely allocated file.  This  can  be  useful
       for  applications  such as file backup tools, which can save space when creating backups and preserve
       holes, if they have a mechanism for discovering holes.

       For the purposes of these operations, a hole is a sequence of zeros  that  (normally)  has  not  been
       allocated  in  the underlying file storage.  However, a filesystem is not obliged to report holes, so
       these operations are not a guaranteed mechanism for mapping the storage space actually allocated to a
       file.  (Furthermore, a sequence of zeros that actually has been written to the underlying storage may
       not be reported as a hole.)  In the simplest implementation, a filesystem can support the  operations
       by  making  SEEK_HOLE  always  return  the offset of the end of the file, and making SEEK_DATA always
       return offset (i.e., even if the location referred to by offset is a hole, it can  be  considered  to
       consist of data that is a sequence of zeros).

       The  _GNU_SOURCE  feature  test macro must be defined in order to obtain the definitions of SEEK_DATA
       and SEEK_HOLE from <unistd.h>.

       The SEEK_HOLE and SEEK_DATA operations are supported for the following filesystems:

       *  Btrfs (since Linux 3.1)

       *  OCFS (since Linux 3.2)

       *  XFS (since Linux 3.5)

       *  ext4 (since Linux 3.8)

       *  tmpfs(5) (since Linux 3.8)

       *  NFS (since Linux 3.18)

       *  FUSE (since Linux 4.5)

RETURN VALUE
       Upon successful completion, lseek() returns the resulting offset location as measured in  bytes  from
       the  beginning  of the file.  On error, the value (off_t) -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate
       the error.

ERRORS
       EBADF  fd is not an open file descriptor.

       EINVAL whence is not valid.  Or: the resulting file offset would be negative, or beyond the end of  a
              seekable device.

       ENXIO  whence is SEEK_DATA or SEEK_HOLE, and the file offset is beyond the end of the file.

       EOVERFLOW
              The resulting file offset cannot be represented in an off_t.

       ESPIPE fd is associated with a pipe, socket, or FIFO.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4, 4.3BSD.

       SEEK_DATA  and  SEEK_HOLE  are nonstandard extensions also present in Solaris, FreeBSD, and DragonFly
       BSD; they are proposed for inclusion in the next POSIX revision (Issue 8).

NOTES
       See open(2) for a discussion of the relationship between file descriptors,  open  file  descriptions,
       and files.

       If  the  O_APPEND  file status flag is set on the open file description, then a write(2) always moves
       the file offset to the end of the file, regardless of the use of lseek().

       The off_t data type is a signed integer data type specified by POSIX.1.

       Some devices are incapable of seeking and POSIX does not specify which devices must support lseek().

       On Linux, using lseek() on a terminal device fails with the error ESPIPE.

SEE ALSO
       dup(2), fallocate(2), fork(2), open(2), fseek(3), lseek64(3), posix_fallocate(3)

Linux                                            2017-09-15                                         LSEEK(2)
