lspci(8)                                      The PCI Utilities                                     lspci(8)

NAME
       lspci - list all PCI devices

SYNOPSIS
       lspci [options]

DESCRIPTION
       lspci  is a utility for displaying information about PCI buses in the system and devices connected to
       them.

       By default, it shows a brief list of devices. Use the options described below  to  request  either  a
       more verbose output or output intended for parsing by other programs.

       If  you  are  going to report bugs in PCI device drivers or in lspci itself, please include output of
       "lspci -vvx" or even better "lspci -vvxxx" (however, see below for possible caveats).

       Some parts of the output, especially in the highly verbose modes, are probably intelligible  only  to
       experienced  PCI hackers. For exact definitions of the fields, please consult either the PCI specifi‐
       cations or the header.h and /usr/include/linux/pci.h include files.

       Access to some parts of the PCI configuration space is restricted to root on many operating  systems,
       so the features of lspci available to normal users are limited. However, lspci tries its best to dis‐
       play as much as available and mark all other information with <access denied> text.

OPTIONS
   Basic display modes
       -m     Dump PCI device data in a backward-compatible machine readable form.  See below for details.

       -mm    Dump PCI device data in a machine readable form for easy parsing by scripts.   See  below  for
              details.

       -t     Show a tree-like diagram containing all buses, bridges, devices and connections between them.

   Display options
       -v     Be verbose and display detailed information about all devices.

       -vv    Be very verbose and display more details. This level includes everything deemed useful.

       -vvv   Be  even  more  verbose  and  display everything we are able to parse, even if it doesn't look
              interesting at all (e.g., undefined memory regions).

       -k     Show kernel drivers handling each device and also  kernel  modules  capable  of  handling  it.
              Turned  on by default when -v is given in the normal mode of output.  (Currently works only on
              Linux with kernel 2.6 or newer.)

       -x     Show hexadecimal dump of the standard part of the configuration space (the first 64  bytes  or
              128 bytes for CardBus bridges).

       -xxx   Show  hexadecimal  dump  of the whole PCI configuration space. It is available only to root as
              several PCI devices crash when you try to read some parts of the config space  (this  behavior
              probably  doesn't  violate  the  PCI  standard,  but it's at least very stupid). However, such
              devices are rare, so you needn't worry much.

       -xxxx  Show hexadecimal dump of the extended (4096-byte) PCI configuration space available  on  PCI-X
              2.0 and PCI Express buses.

       -b     Bus-centric  view.  Show  all  IRQ  numbers  and addresses as seen by the cards on the PCI bus
              instead of as seen by the kernel.

       -D     Always show PCI domain numbers. By default, lspci suppresses them on machines which have  only
              domain 0.

   Options to control resolving ID's to names
       -n     Show PCI vendor and device codes as numbers instead of looking them up in the PCI ID list.

       -nn    Show PCI vendor and device codes as both numbers and names.

       -q     Use  DNS  to  query  the central PCI ID database if a device is not found in the local pci.ids
              file. If the DNS query succeeds, the result is cached in ~/.pciids-cache and it is  recognized
              in  subsequent  runs even if -q is not given any more. Please use this switch inside automated
              scripts only with caution to avoid overloading the database servers.

       -qq    Same as -q, but the local cache is reset.

       -Q     Query the central database even for entries which are recognized locally.   Use  this  if  you
              suspect that the displayed entry is wrong.

   Options for selection of devices
       -s [[[[<domain>]:]<bus>]:][<device>][.[<func>]]
              Show only devices in the specified domain (in case your machine has several host bridges, they
              can either share a common bus number space or each of them can address a  PCI  domain  of  its
              own;  domains are numbered from 0 to ffff), bus (0 to ff), device (0 to 1f) and function (0 to
              7).  Each component of the device address can be omitted or set  to  "*",  both  meaning  "any
              value".  All  numbers  are  hexadecimal.  E.g., "0:" means all devices on bus 0, "0" means all
              functions of device 0 on any bus, "0.3" selects third function of device 0 on  all  buses  and
              ".4" shows only the fourth function of each device.

       -d [<vendor>]:[<device>][:<class>]
              Show  only devices with specified vendor, device and class ID. The ID's are given in hexadeci‐
              mal and may be omitted or given as "*", both meaning "any value".

   Other options
       -i <file>
              Use <file> as the PCI ID list instead of /usr/share/misc/pci.ids.

       -p <file>
              Use <file> as the map of PCI ID's handled by kernel modules. By default, lspci uses  /lib/mod‐
              ules/kernel_version/modules.pcimap.   Applies  only to Linux systems with recent enough module
              tools.

       -M     Invoke bus mapping mode which performs a thorough scan of all  PCI  devices,  including  those
              behind  misconfigured  bridges,  etc.  This option gives meaningful results only with a direct
              hardware access mode, which usually requires root privileges.  Please note that the bus mapper
              only scans PCI domain 0.

       --version
              Shows lspci version. This option should be used stand-alone.

   PCI access options
       The PCI utilities use the PCI library to talk to PCI devices (see pcilib(7) for details). You can use
       the following options to influence its behavior:

       -A <method>
              The library supports a variety of methods to access the PCI hardware.  By default, it uses the
              first  access  method available, but you can use this option to override this decision. See -A
              help for a list of available methods and their descriptions.

       -O <param>=<value>
              The behavior of the library is controlled by several named parameters.  This option allows  to
              set  the  value of any of the parameters. Use -O help for a list of known parameters and their
              default values.

       -H1    Use direct hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 1.  (This is a shorthand  for  -A
              intel-conf1.)

       -H2    Use  direct  hardware access via Intel configuration mechanism 2.  (This is a shorthand for -A
              intel-conf2.)

       -F <file>
              Instead of accessing real hardware, read the list of devices and values of their configuration
              registers from the given file produced by an earlier run of lspci -x.  This is very useful for
              analysis of user-supplied bug reports, because you can display the hardware  configuration  in
              any way you want without disturbing the user with requests for more dumps.

       -G     Increase debug level of the library.

MACHINE READABLE OUTPUT
       If  you  intend  to process the output of lspci automatically, please use one of the machine-readable
       output formats (-m, -vm, -vmm) described in this section. All other  formats  are  likely  to  change
       between versions of lspci.

       All  numbers are always printed in hexadecimal. If you want to process numeric ID's instead of names,
       please add the -n switch.

   Simple format (-m)
       In the simple format, each device is described on a single line, which  is  formatted  as  parameters
       suitable  for passing to a shell script, i.e., values separated by whitespaces, quoted and escaped if
       necessary.  Some of the arguments are positional: slot, class, vendor name,  device  name,  subsystem
       vendor name and subsystem name (the last two are empty if the device has no subsystem); the remaining
       arguments are option-like:

       -rrev  Revision number.

       -pprogif
              Programming interface.

       The relative order of positional arguments and options is undefined.  New options  can  be  added  in
       future  versions,  but  they  will always have a single argument not separated from the option by any
       spaces, so they can be easily ignored if not recognized.

   Verbose format (-vmm)
       The verbose output is a sequence of records separated by blank lines.  Each record describes a single
       device by a sequence of lines, each line containing a single `tag: value' pair. The tag and the value
       are separated by a single tab character.  Neither the records nor the lines within a  record  are  in
       any particular order.  Tags are case-sensitive.

       The following tags are defined:

       Slot   The  name  of  the  slot where the device resides ([domain:]bus:device.function).  This tag is
              always the first in a record.

       Class  Name of the class.

       Vendor Name of the vendor.

       Device Name of the device.

       SVendor
              Name of the subsystem vendor (optional).

       SDevice
              Name of the subsystem (optional).

       PhySlot
              The physical slot where the device resides (optional, Linux only).

       Rev    Revision number (optional).

       ProgIf Programming interface (optional).

       Driver Kernel driver currently handling the device (optional, Linux only).

       Module Kernel module reporting that it is capable of handling the device (optional, Linux only).

       NUMANode
              NUMA node this device is connected to (optional, Linux only).

       New tags can be added in future versions, so you should silently ignore any tags you don't recognize.

   Backward-compatible verbose format (-vm)
       In this mode, lspci tries to be perfectly compatible with its old versions.  It's almost the same  as
       the  regular  verbose format, but the Device tag is used for both the slot and the device name, so it
       occurs twice in a single record. Please avoid using this format in any new code.

FILES
       /usr/share/misc/pci.ids
              A list of all known PCI  ID's  (vendors,  devices,  classes  and  subclasses).  Maintained  at
              http://pciids.sourceforge.net/, use the update-pciids utility to download the most recent ver‐
              sion.

       /usr/share/misc/pci.ids.gz
              If lspci is compiled with support for compression, this file is tried before pci.ids.

       ~/.pciids-cache
              All ID's found in the DNS query mode are cached in this file.

BUGS
       Sometimes, lspci is not able to decode the configuration registers completely.  This usually  happens
       when  not  enough  documentation was available to the authors.  In such cases, it at least prints the
       <?> mark to signal that there is potentially something more to say. If you know the details,  patches
       will be of course welcome.

       Access to the extended configuration space is currently supported only by the linux_sysfs back-end.

SEE ALSO
       setpci(8), update-pciids(8), pcilib(7)

AUTHOR
       The PCI Utilities are maintained by Martin Mares <mj@ucw.cz>.

pciutils-3.5.2                                 03 October 2016                                      lspci(8)
