MALLOC(3)                                 Linux Programmer's Manual                                MALLOC(3)

NAME
       malloc, free, calloc, realloc - allocate and free dynamic memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdlib.h>

       void *malloc(size_t size);
       void free(void *ptr);
       void *calloc(size_t nmemb, size_t size);
       void *realloc(void *ptr, size_t size);
       void *reallocarray(void *ptr, size_t nmemb, size_t size);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       reallocarray(): _GNU_SOURCE
           Since glibc 2.29:
               _DEFAULT_SOURCE
           Glibc 2.28 and earlier:
               _GNU_SOURCE

DESCRIPTION
       The malloc() function allocates size bytes and returns a pointer to the allocated memory.  The memory
       is not initialized.  If size is 0, then malloc() returns either NULL, or a unique pointer value  that
       can later be successfully passed to free().

       The free() function frees the memory space pointed to by ptr, which must have been returned by a pre‐
       vious call to malloc(), calloc(), or realloc().  Otherwise, or if free(ptr) has already  been  called
       before, undefined behavior occurs.  If ptr is NULL, no operation is performed.

       The  calloc() function allocates memory for an array of nmemb elements of size bytes each and returns
       a pointer to the allocated memory.  The memory is set to zero.  If nmemb or size is 0, then  calloc()
       returns  either  NULL, or a unique pointer value that can later be successfully passed to free().  If
       the multiplication of nmemb and size would result in  integer  overflow,  then  calloc()  returns  an
       error.   By  contrast,  an  integer overflow would not be detected in the following call to malloc(),
       with the result that an incorrectly sized block of memory would be allocated:

           malloc(nmemb * size);

       The realloc() function changes the size of the memory block pointed to by ptr  to  size  bytes.   The
       contents will be unchanged in the range from the start of the region up to the minimum of the old and
       new sizes.  If the new size is larger than the old size, the added memory will  not  be  initialized.
       If ptr is NULL, then the call is equivalent to malloc(size), for all values of size; if size is equal
       to zero, and ptr is not NULL, then the call is equivalent to free(ptr).  Unless ptr is NULL, it  must
       have  been  returned  by an earlier call to malloc(), calloc(), or realloc().  If the area pointed to
       was moved, a free(ptr) is done.

       The reallocarray() function changes the size of the memory block pointed to by ptr to be large enough
       for an array of nmemb elements, each of which is size bytes.  It is equivalent to the call

               realloc(ptr, nmemb * size);

       However, unlike that realloc() call, reallocarray() fails safely in the case where the multiplication
       would overflow.  If such an overflow occurs, reallocarray() returns NULL, sets errno to  ENOMEM,  and
       leaves the original block of memory unchanged.

RETURN VALUE
       The  malloc()  and  calloc()  functions  return  a pointer to the allocated memory, which is suitably
       aligned for any built-in type.  On error, these functions return NULL.  NULL may also be returned  by
       a  successful call to malloc() with a size of zero, or by a successful call to calloc() with nmemb or
       size equal to zero.

       The free() function returns no value.

       The realloc() function returns a pointer to the newly allocated memory, which is suitably aligned for
       any  built-in type and may be different from ptr, or NULL if the request fails.  If size was equal to
       0, either NULL or a pointer suitable to be passed to free() is returned.   If  realloc()  fails,  the
       original block is left untouched; it is not freed or moved.

       On success, the reallocarray() function returns a pointer to the newly allocated memory.  On failure,
       it returns NULL and the original block of memory is left untouched.

ERRORS
       calloc(), malloc(), realloc(), and reallocarray() can fail with the following error:

       ENOMEM Out of memory.  Possibly, the application hit the RLIMIT_AS or RLIMIT_DATA limit described  in
              getrlimit(2).

ATTRIBUTES
       For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see attributes(7).

       ┌─────────────────────┬───────────────┬─────────┐
       │Interface            │ Attribute     │ Value   │
       ├─────────────────────┼───────────────┼─────────┤
       │malloc(), free(),    │ Thread safety │ MT-Safe │
       │calloc(), realloc()  │               │         │
       └─────────────────────┴───────────────┴─────────┘
CONFORMING TO
       malloc(), free(), calloc(), realloc(): POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C89, C99.

       reallocarray() is a nonstandard extension that first appeared in OpenBSD 5.6 and FreeBSD 11.0.

NOTES
       By  default,  Linux  follows an optimistic memory allocation strategy.  This means that when malloc()
       returns non-NULL there is no guarantee that the memory really is available.  In  case  it  turns  out
       that  the  system is out of memory, one or more processes will be killed by the OOM killer.  For more
       information, see  the  description  of  /proc/sys/vm/overcommit_memory  and  /proc/sys/vm/oom_adj  in
       proc(5), and the Linux kernel source file Documentation/vm/overcommit-accounting.

       Normally,  malloc()  allocates  memory  from  the heap, and adjusts the size of the heap as required,
       using sbrk(2).  When allocating blocks of memory larger than MMAP_THRESHOLD bytes, the glibc malloc()
       implementation  allocates the memory as a private anonymous mapping using mmap(2).  MMAP_THRESHOLD is
       128 kB by default, but is adjustable using mallopt(3).  Prior  to  Linux  4.7  allocations  performed
       using  mmap(2) were unaffected by the RLIMIT_DATA resource limit; since Linux 4.7, this limit is also
       enforced for allocations performed using mmap(2).

       To avoid corruption in multithreaded applications, mutexes are used internally to protect the memory-
       management  data  structures  employed  by  these functions.  In a multithreaded application in which
       threads simultaneously allocate and free memory, there could be contention  for  these  mutexes.   To
       scalably  handle  memory  allocation  in  multithreaded applications, glibc creates additional memory
       allocation arenas if mutex contention is detected.  Each arena is a large region of  memory  that  is
       internally allocated by the system (using brk(2) or mmap(2)), and managed with its own mutexes.

       SUSv2  requires malloc(), calloc(), and realloc() to set errno to ENOMEM upon failure.  Glibc assumes
       that this is done (and the glibc versions of these routines do this); if you  use  a  private  malloc
       implementation  that does not set errno, then certain library routines may fail without having a rea‐
       son in errno.

       Crashes in malloc(), calloc(), realloc(), or free() are almost always  related  to  heap  corruption,
       such as overflowing an allocated chunk or freeing the same pointer twice.

       The malloc() implementation is tunable via environment variables; see mallopt(3) for details.

SEE ALSO
       valgrind(1), brk(2), mmap(2), alloca(3), malloc_get_state(3), malloc_info(3), malloc_trim(3),
       malloc_usable_size(3), mallopt(3), mcheck(3), mtrace(3), posix_memalign(3)

       For details of the GNU C library implementation, see
       ⟨https://sourceware.org/glibc/wiki/MallocInternals⟩.

GNU                                              2017-09-15                                        MALLOC(3)
