MBIND(2)                                  Linux Programmer's Manual                                 MBIND(2)

NAME
       mbind - set memory policy for a memory range

SYNOPSIS
       #include <numaif.h>

       long mbind(void *addr, unsigned long len, int mode,
                  const unsigned long *nodemask, unsigned long maxnode,
                  unsigned flags);

       Link with -lnuma.

DESCRIPTION
       mbind()  sets the NUMA memory policy, which consists of a policy mode and zero or more nodes, for the
       memory range starting with addr and continuing for len bytes.  The memory policy defines  from  which
       node memory is allocated.

       If the memory range specified by the addr and len arguments includes an "anonymous" region of memory—
       that is a region of memory created using the mmap(2) system call with the MAP_ANONYMOUS—or a  memory-
       mapped  file, mapped using the mmap(2) system call with the MAP_PRIVATE flag, pages will be allocated
       only according to the specified policy when the application writes (stores) to the page.  For  anony‐
       mous  regions, an initial read access will use a shared page in the kernel containing all zeros.  For
       a file mapped with MAP_PRIVATE, an initial read access will allocate pages according  to  the  memory
       policy  of  the  thread that causes the page to be allocated.  This may not be the thread that called
       mbind().

       The specified policy will be ignored for any MAP_SHARED  mappings  in  the  specified  memory  range.
       Rather  the pages will be allocated according to the memory policy of the thread that caused the page
       to be allocated.  Again, this may not be the thread that called mbind().

       If the specified memory range includes a shared memory region created using the shmget(2) system call
       and  attached  using  the  shmat(2)  system  call, pages allocated for the anonymous or shared memory
       region will be allocated according to the policy specified, regardless of which process  attached  to
       the  shared  memory segment causes the allocation.  If, however, the shared memory region was created
       with the SHM_HUGETLB flag, the huge pages will be allocated according to the policy specified only if
       the page allocation is caused by the process that calls mbind() for that region.

       By  default,  mbind() has an effect only for new allocations; if the pages inside the range have been
       already touched before setting the policy, then the policy has no effect.  This default behavior  may
       be overridden by the MPOL_MF_MOVE and MPOL_MF_MOVE_ALL flags described below.

       The  mode  argument  must specify one of MPOL_DEFAULT, MPOL_BIND, MPOL_INTERLEAVE, MPOL_PREFERRED, or
       MPOL_LOCAL (which are described in detail below).  All policy modes except MPOL_DEFAULT  require  the
       caller to specify the node or nodes to which the mode applies, via the nodemask argument.

       The mode argument may also include an optional mode flag.  The supported mode flags are:

       MPOL_F_STATIC_NODES (since Linux-2.6.26)
              A  nonempty  nodemask specifies physical node IDs.  Linux does not remap the nodemask when the
              thread moves to a different cpuset context, nor when the set of nodes allowed by the  thread's
              current cpuset context changes.

       MPOL_F_RELATIVE_NODES (since Linux-2.6.26)
              A nonempty nodemask specifies node IDs that are relative to the set of node IDs allowed by the
              thread's current cpuset.

       nodemask points to a bit mask of nodes containing up to maxnode bits.  The bit mask size  is  rounded
       to  the  next  multiple of sizeof(unsigned long), but the kernel will use bits only up to maxnode.  A
       NULL value of nodemask or a maxnode value of zero specifies the empty set of nodes.  If the value  of
       maxnode  is zero, the nodemask argument is ignored.  Where a nodemask is required, it must contain at
       least one node that  is  on-line,  allowed  by  the  thread's  current  cpuset  context  (unless  the
       MPOL_F_STATIC_NODES mode flag is specified), and contains memory.

       The mode argument must include one of the following values:

       MPOL_DEFAULT
              This  mode  requests  that any nondefault policy be removed, restoring default behavior.  When
              applied to a range of memory via mbind(), this means to use the thread  memory  policy,  which
              may  have  been  set  with  set_mempolicy(2).  If the mode of the thread memory policy is also
              MPOL_DEFAULT, the system-wide default policy will be used.   The  system-wide  default  policy
              allocates  pages  on  the node of the CPU that triggers the allocation.  For MPOL_DEFAULT, the
              nodemask and maxnode arguments must be specify the empty set of nodes.

       MPOL_BIND
              This mode specifies a strict policy that restricts memory allocation to the nodes specified in
              nodemask.   If nodemask specifies more than one node, page allocations will come from the node
              with sufficient free memory that is closest to the node  where  the  allocation  takes  place.
              Pages  will  not  be allocated from any node not specified in the IR nodemask .  (Before Linux
              2.6.26, page allocations came from the node with the lowest numeric node ID first, until  that
              node contained no free memory.  Allocations then came from the node with the next highest node
              ID specified in nodemask and so forth, until none of the specified nodes contained  free  mem‐
              ory.)

       MPOL_INTERLEAVE
              This  mode specifies that page allocations be interleaved across the set of nodes specified in
              nodemask.  This optimizes for bandwidth instead of latency by spreading out pages  and  memory
              accesses  to  those  pages  across  multiple nodes.  To be effective the memory area should be
              fairly large, at least 1 MB or bigger with a fairly uniform access  pattern.   Accesses  to  a
              single page of the area will still be limited to the memory bandwidth of a single node.

       MPOL_PREFERRED
              This  mode sets the preferred node for allocation.  The kernel will try to allocate pages from
              this node first and fall back to other nodes if the preferred nodes is low on free memory.  If
              nodemask  specifies  more than one node ID, the first node in the mask will be selected as the
              preferred node.  If the nodemask and maxnode arguments specify the empty set, then the  memory
              is allocated on the node of the CPU that triggered the allocation.

       MPOL_LOCAL (since Linux 3.8)
              This  mode  specifies  "local allocation"; the memory is allocated on the node of the CPU that
              triggered the allocation (the "local node").  The nodemask and maxnode arguments must  specify
              the  empty  set.   If  the "local node" is low on free memory, the kernel will try to allocate
              memory from other nodes.  The kernel will allocate memory from the "local node" whenever  mem‐
              ory  for  this  node is available.  If the "local node" is not allowed by the thread's current
              cpuset context, the kernel will try to allocate memory from  other  nodes.   The  kernel  will
              allocate  memory  from  the  "local  node" whenever it becomes allowed by the thread's current
              cpuset context.  By contrast, MPOL_DEFAULT reverts to the memory policy of the  thread  (which
              may be set via set_mempolicy(2)); that policy may be something other than "local allocation".

       If MPOL_MF_STRICT is passed in flags and mode is not MPOL_DEFAULT, then the call fails with the error
       EIO if the existing pages in the memory range don't follow the policy.

       If MPOL_MF_MOVE is specified in flags, then the kernel will attempt to move all the existing pages in
       the memory range so that they follow the policy.  Pages that are shared with other processes will not
       be moved.  If MPOL_MF_STRICT is also specified, then the call fails with the error EIO if some  pages
       could not be moved.

       If  MPOL_MF_MOVE_ALL  is  passed in flags, then the kernel will attempt to move all existing pages in
       the memory range regardless of whether other processes use the pages.  The  calling  thread  must  be
       privileged (CAP_SYS_NICE) to use this flag.  If MPOL_MF_STRICT is also specified, then the call fails
       with the error EIO if some pages could not be moved.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, mbind() returns 0; on error, -1 is returned and errno is set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       EFAULT Part or all of the memory range specified by nodemask and maxnode points outside your accessi‐
              ble  address space.  Or, there was an unmapped hole in the specified memory range specified by
              addr and len.

       EINVAL An invalid value was specified for flags or mode; or addr + len was less than addr; or addr is
              not  a  multiple  of  the system page size.  Or, mode is MPOL_DEFAULT and nodemask specified a
              nonempty set; or mode is MPOL_BIND or MPOL_INTERLEAVE and  nodemask  is  empty.   Or,  maxnode
              exceeds  a kernel-imposed limit.  Or, nodemask specifies one or more node IDs that are greater
              than the maximum supported node ID.  Or, none of the node IDs specified by  nodemask  are  on-
              line  and  allowed by the thread's current cpuset context, or none of the specified nodes con‐
              tain memory.  Or, the  mode  argument  specified  both  MPOL_F_STATIC_NODES  and  MPOL_F_RELA‐
              TIVE_NODES.

       EIO    MPOL_MF_STRICT  was  specified and an existing page was already on a node that does not follow
              the policy; or MPOL_MF_MOVE or MPOL_MF_MOVE_ALL was specified and the  kernel  was  unable  to
              move all existing pages in the range.

       ENOMEM Insufficient kernel memory was available.

       EPERM  The  flags  argument  included  the  MPOL_MF_MOVE_ALL  flag  and  the caller does not have the
              CAP_SYS_NICE privilege.

VERSIONS
       The mbind() system call was added to the Linux kernel in version 2.6.7.

CONFORMING TO
       This system call is Linux-specific.

NOTES
       For information on library support, see numa(7).

       NUMA policy is not supported on a memory-mapped file range that was mapped with the MAP_SHARED flag.

       The MPOL_DEFAULT mode can have different effects for mbind() and set_mempolicy(2).  When MPOL_DEFAULT
       is specified for set_mempolicy(2), the thread's memory policy reverts to the system default policy or
       local allocation.  When MPOL_DEFAULT is specified for a range of memory using mbind(), any pages sub‐
       sequently  allocated  for that range will use the thread's memory policy, as set by set_mempolicy(2).
       This effectively removes the explicit policy from the specified range, "falling back" to  a  possibly
       nondefault  policy.   To  select  explicit  "local  allocation" for a memory range, specify a mode of
       MPOL_LOCAL or MPOL_PREFERRED with an empty set of nodes.  This method will work for set_mempolicy(2),
       as well.

       Support  for  huge  page policy was added with 2.6.16.  For interleave policy to be effective on huge
       page mappings the policied memory needs to be tens of megabytes or larger.

       MPOL_MF_STRICT is ignored on huge page mappings.

       MPOL_MF_MOVE and MPOL_MF_MOVE_ALL are available only on Linux 2.6.16 and later.

SEE ALSO
       get_mempolicy(2), getcpu(2), mmap(2),  set_mempolicy(2),  shmat(2),  shmget(2),  numa(3),  cpuset(7),
       numa(7), numactl(8)

Linux                                            2017-09-15                                         MBIND(2)
