MLOCK(2)                                  Linux Programmer's Manual                                 MLOCK(2)

NAME
       mlock, mlock2, munlock, mlockall, munlockall - lock and unlock memory

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/mman.h>

       int mlock(const void *addr, size_t len);
       int mlock2(const void *addr, size_t len, int flags);
       int munlock(const void *addr, size_t len);

       int mlockall(int flags);
       int munlockall(void);

DESCRIPTION
       mlock(),  mlock2(),  and  mlockall()  lock part or all of the calling process's virtual address space
       into RAM, preventing that memory from being paged to the swap area.

       munlock() and munlockall() perform the converse operation, unlocking  part  or  all  of  the  calling
       process's  virtual  address space, so that pages in the specified virtual address range may once more
       to be swapped out if required by the kernel memory manager.

       Memory locking and unlocking are performed in units of whole pages.

   mlock(), mlock2(), and munlock()
       mlock() locks pages in the address range starting at addr and continuing for len  bytes.   All  pages
       that contain a part of the specified address range are guaranteed to be resident in RAM when the call
       returns successfully; the pages are guaranteed to stay in RAM until later unlocked.

       mlock2() also locks pages in the specified range starting at addr and continuing for len bytes.  How‐
       ever,  the state of the pages contained in that range after the call returns successfully will depend
       on the value in the flags argument.

       The flags argument can be either 0 or the following constant:

       MLOCK_ONFAULT
              Lock pages that are currently resident and mark the entire range so that the remaining nonres‐
              ident pages locked when they are populated by a page fault.

       If flags is 0, mlock2() behaves exactly the same as mlock().

       munlock()  unlocks  pages  in the address range starting at addr and continuing for len bytes.  After
       this call, all pages that contain a part of the specified memory range can be moved to external  swap
       space again by the kernel.

   mlockall() and munlockall()
       mlockall()  locks  all pages mapped into the address space of the calling process.  This includes the
       pages of the code, data and stack segment, as well as  shared  libraries,  user  space  kernel  data,
       shared  memory,  and memory-mapped files.  All mapped pages are guaranteed to be resident in RAM when
       the call returns successfully; the pages are guaranteed to stay in RAM until later unlocked.

       The flags argument is constructed as the bitwise OR of one or more of the following constants:

       MCL_CURRENT Lock all pages which are currently mapped into the address space of the process.

       MCL_FUTURE  Lock all pages which will become mapped into the address space  of  the  process  in  the
                   future.   These could be, for instance, new pages required by a growing heap and stack as
                   well as new memory-mapped files or shared memory regions.

       MCL_ONFAULT (since Linux 4.4)
                   Used together with MCL_CURRENT, MCL_FUTURE, or both.  Mark all current (with MCL_CURRENT)
                   or  future  (with MCL_FUTURE) mappings to lock pages when they are faulted in.  When used
                   with MCL_CURRENT, all present pages are locked, but mlockall() will  not  fault  in  non-
                   present  pages.   When  used  with MCL_FUTURE, all future mappings will be marked to lock
                   pages when they are faulted in, but they will not be populated by the lock when the  map‐
                   ping is created.  MCL_ONFAULT must be used with either MCL_CURRENT or MCL_FUTURE or both.

       If  MCL_FUTURE  has been specified, then a later system call (e.g., mmap(2), sbrk(2), malloc(3)), may
       fail if it would cause the number of locked bytes to exceed the permitted maximum  (see  below).   In
       the  same  circumstances,  stack  growth  may likewise fail: the kernel will deny stack expansion and
       deliver a SIGSEGV signal to the process.

       munlockall() unlocks all pages mapped into the address space of the calling process.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, these system calls return 0.  On error, -1 is returned, errno is set  appropriately,  and
       no changes are made to any locks in the address space of the process.

ERRORS
       ENOMEM (Linux 2.6.9 and later) the caller had a nonzero RLIMIT_MEMLOCK soft resource limit, but tried
              to lock more memory than the limit permitted.  This limit is not enforced if  the  process  is
              privileged (CAP_IPC_LOCK).

       ENOMEM (Linux 2.4 and earlier) the calling process tried to lock more than half of RAM.

       EPERM  The  caller  is  not  privileged,  but needs privilege (CAP_IPC_LOCK) to perform the requested
              operation.

       For mlock(), mlock2(), and munlock():

       EAGAIN Some or all of the specified address range could not be locked.

       EINVAL The result of the addition addr+len was less than addr (e.g., the addition may  have  resulted
              in an overflow).

       EINVAL (Not on Linux) addr was not a multiple of the page size.

       ENOMEM Some  of  the specified address range does not correspond to mapped pages in the address space
              of the process.

       ENOMEM Locking or unlocking a region would result in the  total  number  of  mappings  with  distinct
              attributes  (e.g.,  locked  versus  unlocked)  exceeding  the  allowed maximum.  (For example,
              unlocking a range in the middle of a currently locked mapping would result in three  mappings:
              two locked mappings at each end and an unlocked mapping in the middle.)

       For mlock2():

       EINVAL Unknown flags were specified.

       For mlockall():

       EINVAL Unknown  flags  were  specified  or  MCL_ONFAULT  was  specified  without either MCL_FUTURE or
              MCL_CURRENT.

       For munlockall():

       EPERM  (Linux 2.6.8 and earlier) The caller was not privileged (CAP_IPC_LOCK).

VERSIONS
       mlock2() is available since Linux 4.4; glibc support was added in version 2.27.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4.

       mlock2 () is Linux specific.

AVAILABILITY
       On POSIX systems on which mlock() and munlock() are available,  _POSIX_MEMLOCK_RANGE  is  defined  in
       <unistd.h>  and  the  number  of  bytes  in  a  page can be determined from the constant PAGESIZE (if
       defined) in <limits.h> or by calling sysconf(_SC_PAGESIZE).

       On POSIX systems on which mlockall() and munlockall() are available,  _POSIX_MEMLOCK  is  defined  in
       <unistd.h> to a value greater than 0.  (See also sysconf(3).)

NOTES
       Memory  locking  has  two  main applications: real-time algorithms and high-security data processing.
       Real-time applications require deterministic timing, and, like scheduling, paging is one major  cause
       of  unexpected  program execution delays.  Real-time applications will usually also switch to a real-
       time scheduler with sched_setscheduler(2).  Cryptographic security software  often  handles  critical
       bytes  like  passwords or secret keys as data structures.  As a result of paging, these secrets could
       be transferred onto a persistent swap store medium, where they might be accessible to the enemy  long
       after  the  security  software  has erased the secrets in RAM and terminated.  (But be aware that the
       suspend mode on laptops and some desktop computers will save a copy of  the  system's  RAM  to  disk,
       regardless of memory locks.)

       Real-time  processes that are using mlockall() to prevent delays on page faults should reserve enough
       locked stack pages before entering the time-critical section, so that no page fault can be caused  by
       function calls.  This can be achieved by calling a function that allocates a sufficiently large auto‐
       matic variable (an array) and writes to the memory occupied by this array in  order  to  touch  these
       stack  pages.   This  way, enough pages will be mapped for the stack and can be locked into RAM.  The
       dummy writes ensure that not even copy-on-write page faults can occur in the critical section.

       Memory locks are not inherited  by  a  child  created  via  fork(2)  and  are  automatically  removed
       (unlocked)  during  an  execve(2)  or  when  the  process  terminates.  The mlockall() MCL_FUTURE and
       MCL_FUTURE | MCL_ONFAULT settings are not inherited by a child created via fork(2)  and  are  cleared
       during an execve(2).

       Note  that  fork(2) will prepare the address space for a copy-on-write operation.  The consequence is
       that any write access that follows will cause a page fault that in turn may cause high latencies  for
       a  real-time  process.  Therefore, it is crucial not to invoke fork(2) after an mlockall() or mlock()
       operation—not even from a thread which runs at a low priority within  a  process  which  also  has  a
       thread running at elevated priority.

       The  memory  lock  on  an address range is automatically removed if the address range is unmapped via
       munmap(2).

       Memory locks do not stack, that is, pages which have been locked several times by calls  to  mlock(),
       mlock2(), or mlockall() will be unlocked by a single call to munlock() for the corresponding range or
       by munlockall().  Pages which are mapped to several locations or by  several  processes  stay  locked
       into RAM as long as they are locked at least at one location or by at least one process.

       If  a  call  to  mlockall()  which uses the MCL_FUTURE flag is followed by another call that does not
       specify this flag, the changes made by the MCL_FUTURE call will be lost.

       The mlock2() MLOCK_ONFAULT flag and the mlockall() MCL_ONFAULT flag allow  efficient  memory  locking
       for  applications  that deal with large mappings where only a (small) portion of pages in the mapping
       are touched.  In such cases, locking all of the pages in a mapping would incur a significant  penalty
       for memory locking.

   Linux notes
       Under  Linux,  mlock(),  mlock2(),  and  munlock()  automatically round addr down to the nearest page
       boundary.  However, the POSIX.1 specification of mlock() and munlock() allows  an  implementation  to
       require that addr is page aligned, so portable applications should ensure this.

       The  VmLck field of the Linux-specific /proc/[pid]/status file shows how many kilobytes of memory the
       process with ID PID has locked using mlock(), mlock2(), mlockall(), and mmap(2) MAP_LOCKED.

   Limits and permissions
       In Linux 2.6.8 and earlier, a process must be privileged (CAP_IPC_LOCK) in order to lock  memory  and
       the RLIMIT_MEMLOCK soft resource limit defines a limit on how much memory the process may lock.

       Since  Linux  2.6.9,  no limits are placed on the amount of memory that a privileged process can lock
       and the RLIMIT_MEMLOCK soft resource limit instead defines a limit on how much memory an unprivileged
       process may lock.

BUGS
       In  Linux  4.8  and  earlier, a bug in the kernel's accounting of locked memory for unprivileged pro‐
       cesses (i.e., without CAP_IPC_LOCK) meant that if the region specified by addr and len overlapped  an
       existing lock, then the already locked bytes in the overlapping region were counted twice when check‐
       ing against the limit.  Such double accounting could incorrectly calculate a  "total  locked  memory"
       value  for  the  process  that  exceeded  the  RLIMIT_MEMLOCK limit, with the result that mlock() and
       mlock2() would fail on requests that should have succeeded.  This bug was fixed in Linux 4.9

       In the 2.4 series Linux kernels up to and including 2.4.17, a bug caused  the  mlockall()  MCL_FUTURE
       flag to be inherited across a fork(2).  This was rectified in kernel 2.4.18.

       Since  kernel  2.6.9,  if  a privileged process calls mlockall(MCL_FUTURE) and later drops privileges
       (loses the CAP_IPC_LOCK capability by, for example, setting its effective UID to  a  nonzero  value),
       then  subsequent  memory allocations (e.g., mmap(2), brk(2)) will fail if the RLIMIT_MEMLOCK resource
       limit is encountered.

SEE ALSO
       mincore(2), mmap(2), setrlimit(2), shmctl(2), sysconf(3), proc(5), capabilities(7)

Linux                                            2018-02-02                                         MLOCK(2)
