MOUNT(8)                                    System Administration                                   MOUNT(8)

NAME
       mount - mount a filesystem

SYNOPSIS
       mount [-l|-h|-V]

       mount -a [-fFnrsvw] [-t fstype] [-O optlist]

       mount [-fnrsvw] [-o options] device|dir

       mount [-fnrsvw] [-t fstype] [-o options] device dir

DESCRIPTION
       All  files accessible in a Unix system are arranged in one big tree, the file hierarchy, rooted at /.
       These files can be spread out over several devices.  The mount command serves to attach the  filesys‐
       tem  found  on  some  device  to the big file tree.  Conversely, the umount(8) command will detach it
       again.  The filesystem is used to control how data is stored on the device or provided in  a  virtual
       way by network or another services.

       The standard form of the mount command is:

              mount -t type device dir

       This  tells the kernel to attach the filesystem found on device (which is of type type) at the direc‐
       tory dir.  The option -t type is optional.  The mount command is usually able to detect a filesystem.
       The  root  permissions  are  necessary  to mount a filesystem by default.  See section "Non-superuser
       mounts" below for more details.  The previous contents (if any) and owner  and  mode  of  dir  become
       invisible, and as long as this filesystem remains mounted, the pathname dir refers to the root of the
       filesystem on device.

       If only the directory or the device is given, for example:

              mount /dir

       then mount looks for a mountpoint (and if not found then for a device) in the /etc/fstab file.   It's
       possible  to  use  the  --target  or --source options to avoid ambivalent interpretation of the given
       argument.  For example:

              mount --target /mountpoint

   Listing the mounts
       The listing mode is maintained for backward compatibility only.

       For more robust and customizable output use findmnt(8), especially in your scripts.  Note  that  con‐
       trol characters in the mountpoint name are replaced with '?'.

       The following command lists all mounted filesystems (of type type):

              mount [-l] [-t type]

       The option -l adds labels to this listing.  See below.

   Indicating the device and filesystem
       Most  devices  are indicated by a filename (of a block special device), like /dev/sda1, but there are
       other  possibilities.   For  example,  in  the  case  of  an  NFS  mount,  device   may   look   like
       knuth.cwi.nl:/dir.  It is also possible to indicate a block special device using its filesystem label
       or UUID (see the -L and -U options below), or its partition label or UUID.  Partition identifiers are
       supported for example for GUID Partition Tables (GPT).

       The  device  name  of  disk  partitions  are unstable; hardware reconfiguration, adding or removing a
       device can cause change in names. This is reason why it's strongly recommended to use  filesystem  or
       partition identificators like UUID or LABEL.

       The command lsblk --fs provides overview of filesystems, LABELs and UUIDs on available block devices.
       The command blkid -p <device> provides details about a filesystem on the specified device.

       Don't forget that there is no guarantee that UUIDs and labels are really unique,  especially  if  you
       move,  share  or  copy  the  device.  Use lsblk -o +UUID,PARTUUID to verify that the UUIDs are really
       unique in your system.

       The recommended setup is to use tags (e.g.  UUID=uuid)  rather  than  /dev/disk/by-{label,uuid,partu‐
       uid,partlabel}  udev  symlinks  in the /etc/fstab file.  Tags are more readable, robust and portable.
       The mount(8) command internally uses udev symlinks, so the use  of  symlinks  in  /etc/fstab  has  no
       advantage over tags.  For more details see libblkid(3).

       Note  that  mount(8) uses UUIDs as strings.  The UUIDs from the command line or from fstab(5) are not
       converted to internal binary representation.  The string representation of the UUID should  be  based
       on lower case characters.

       The  proc filesystem is not associated with a special device, and when mounting it, an arbitrary key‐
       word, such as proc can be used instead of a device specification.  (The customary choice none is less
       fortunate: the error message `none busy' from umount can be confusing.)

   The files /etc/fstab, /etc/mtab and /proc/mounts
       The  file  /etc/fstab  (see  fstab(5)), may contain lines describing what devices are usually mounted
       where, using which options.  The default location of the fstab(5) file can  be  overridden  with  the
       --fstab path command-line option (see below for more details).

       The command

              mount -a [-t type] [-O optlist]

       (usually  given in a bootscript) causes all filesystems mentioned in fstab (of the proper type and/or
       having or not having the proper options) to be mounted as indicated, except for those whose line con‐
       tains  the  noauto  keyword.   Adding the -F option will make mount fork, so that the filesystems are
       mounted simultaneously.

       When mounting a filesystem mentioned in fstab or mtab, it suffices to specify  on  the  command  line
       only the device, or only the mount point.

       The programs mount and umount traditionally maintained a list of currently mounted filesystems in the
       file /etc/mtab.  This real mtab file is still supported, but on current Linux systems it is better to
       make it a symlink to /proc/mounts instead, because a regular mtab file maintained in userspace cannot
       reliably work with namespaces, containers and other advanced Linux features.

       If no arguments are given to mount, the list of mounted filesystems is printed.

       If you want to override mount options from /etc/fstab you have to use the -o option:

              mount device|dir -o options

       and then the mount options from the command line will  be  appended  to  the  list  of  options  from
       /etc/fstab.  The usual behavior is that the last option wins if there are conflicting ones.

       The mount program does not read the /etc/fstab file if both device (or LABEL, UUID, PARTUUID or PART‐
       LABEL) and dir are specified.  For example, to mount device foo at /dir:

              mount /dev/foo /dir

   Non-superuser mounts
       Normally, only the superuser can mount filesystems.  However, when fstab contains the user option  on
       a line, anybody can mount the corresponding filesystem.

       Thus, given a line

              /dev/cdrom  /cd  iso9660  ro,user,noauto,unhide

       any user can mount the iso9660 filesystem found on an inserted CDROM using the command:
              mount /cd

       Note that mount is very strict about non-root users and all paths specified on command line are veri‐
       fied before fstab is parsed or a helper program is executed. It's strongly recommended to use a valid
       mountpoint  to  specify filesystem, otherwise mount may fail. For example it's bad idea to use NFS or
       CIFS source on command line.

       For more details, see fstab(5).  Only the user that mounted a filesystem can unmount  it  again.   If
       any  user  should be able to unmount it, then use users instead of user in the fstab line.  The owner
       option is similar to the user option, with the restriction that the user must be  the  owner  of  the
       special  file.  This may be useful e.g. for /dev/fd if a login script makes the console user owner of
       this device.  The group option is similar, with the restriction that the user must be member  of  the
       group of the special file.

   Bind mounts
       Remount part of the file hierarchy somewhere else.  The call is:

              mount --bind olddir newdir

       or by using this fstab entry:

              /olddir /newdir none bind

       After  this  call the same contents are accessible in two places.  One can also remount a single file
       (on a single file).  It's also possible to use the bind mount to create a mountpoint from  a  regular
       directory, for example:

              mount --bind foo foo

       The  bind mount call attaches only (part of) a single filesystem, not possible submounts.  The entire
       file hierarchy including submounts is attached a second place by using:

              mount --rbind olddir newdir

       Note that the filesystem mount options will remain the same as those on the original mount point.

       mount(8) since v2.27 allows to change the mount options by passing the relevant  options  along  with
       --bind.  For example:

              mount -o bind,ro foo foo

       This  feature  is  not supported by the Linux kernel; it is implemented in userspace by an additional
       mount(2) remounting system call.  This solution is not atomic.

       The alternative (classic) way to create a read-only bind mount is to use the remount  operation,  for
       example:

              mount --bind olddir newdir
              mount -o remount,bind,ro olddir newdir

       Note  that a read-only bind will create a read-only mountpoint (VFS entry), but the original filesys‐
       tem superblock will still be writable, meaning that the olddir will be writable, but the newdir  will
       be read-only.

       It's  also possible to change nosuid, nodev, noexec, noatime, nodiratime and relatime VFS entry flags
       by "remount,bind" operation. It's impossible to change mount options recursively (for example with -o
       rbind,ro).

       mount(8)  since  v2.31  ignores  the  bind flag from /etc/fstab on remount operation (if "-o remount"
       specified on command line). This is necessary to fully control mount options on  remount  by  command
       line.  In  the  previous  versions the bind flag has been always applied and it was impossible to re-
       define mount options without interaction with the bind semantic.  This  mount(8)  behavior  does  not
       affect situations when "remount,bind" is specified in the /etc/fstab file.

   The move operation
       Move a mounted tree to another place (atomically).  The call is:

              mount --move olddir newdir

       This  will  cause  the  contents  which  previously  appeared under olddir to now be accessible under
       newdir.  The physical location of the files is not changed.  Note that olddir has to be a mountpoint.

       Note also that moving a mount residing under a shared mount is invalid and unsupported.  Use  findmnt
       -o TARGET,PROPAGATION to see the current propagation flags.

   Shared subtree operations
       Since  Linux  2.6.15  it  is  possible to mark a mount and its submounts as shared, private, slave or
       unbindable.  A shared mount provides the ability to create mirrors of that mount such that mounts and
       unmounts within any of the mirrors propagate to the other mirror.  A slave mount receives propagation
       from its master, but not vice versa.  A private mount carries no propagation abilities.   An  unbind‐
       able  mount  is a private mount which cannot be cloned through a bind operation.  The detailed seman‐
       tics are documented in Documentation/filesystems/sharedsubtree.txt file in the kernel source tree.

       Supported operations are:

              mount --make-shared mountpoint
              mount --make-slave mountpoint
              mount --make-private mountpoint
              mount --make-unbindable mountpoint

       The following commands allow one to recursively change the type of  all  the  mounts  under  a  given
       mountpoint.

              mount --make-rshared mountpoint
              mount --make-rslave mountpoint
              mount --make-rprivate mountpoint
              mount --make-runbindable mountpoint

       mount(8)  does  not  read fstab(5) when a --make-* operation is requested.  All necessary information
       has to be specified on the command line.

       Note that the Linux kernel does not allow to change multiple propagation flags with a single mount(2)
       system call, and the flags cannot be mixed with other mount options.

       Since  util-linux  2.23  the  mount command allows to use several propagation flags together and also
       together with other mount operations.  This feature  is  EXPERIMENTAL.   The  propagation  flags  are
       applied  by  additional  mount(2)  system  calls when the preceding mount operations were successful.
       Note that this use case is not atomic.  It is possible to specify the propagation flags  in  fstab(5)
       as mount options (private, slave, shared, unbindable, rprivate, rslave, rshared, runbindable).

       For example:

              mount --make-private --make-unbindable /dev/sda1 /foo

       is the same as:

              mount /dev/sda1 /foo
              mount --make-private /foo
              mount --make-unbindable /foo

COMMAND-LINE OPTIONS
       The  full  set  of mount options used by an invocation of mount is determined by first extracting the
       mount options for the filesystem from the fstab table, then applying any options specified by the  -o
       argument, and finally applying a -r or -w option, when present.

       The  command  mount  does  not pass all command-line options to the /sbin/mount.suffix mount helpers.
       The interface between mount and the mount helpers is described below in the section EXTERNAL HELPERS.

       Command-line options available for the mount command are:

       -a, --all
              Mount all filesystems (of the given types) mentioned in fstab (except  for  those  whose  line
              contains the noauto keyword).  The filesystems are mounted following their order in fstab.

              Note that it is a bad practice to use mount -a for fstab checking. The recommended solution is
              findmnt --verify.

       -B, --bind
              Remount a subtree somewhere else (so that its contents are available  in  both  places).   See
              above, under Bind mounts.

       -c, --no-canonicalize
              Don't  canonicalize  paths.   The  mount command canonicalizes all paths (from command line or
              fstab) by default.  This option can be used together with the -f flag for  already  canonical‐
              ized  absolute  paths.   The  option is designed for mount helpers which call mount -i.  It is
              strongly recommended to not use this command-line option for normal mount operations.

              Note that mount(8) does not pass this option to the /sbin/mount.type helpers.

       -F, --fork
              (Used in conjunction with -a.)  Fork off a new incarnation of mount  for  each  device.   This
              will  do  the  mounts on different devices or different NFS servers in parallel.  This has the
              advantage that it is faster; also NFS timeouts go in parallel.  A  disadvantage  is  that  the
              mounts  are  done  in  undefined order.  Thus, you cannot use this option if you want to mount
              both /usr and /usr/spool.

       -f, --fake
              Causes everything to be done except for the actual system call;  if  it's  not  obvious,  this
              ``fakes''  mounting  the filesystem.  This option is useful in conjunction with the -v flag to
              determine what the mount command is trying to do.  It can also be  used  to  add  entries  for
              devices  that  were  mounted earlier with the -n option.  The -f option checks for an existing
              record in /etc/mtab and fails when the record already exists (with a regular  non-fake  mount,
              this check is done by the kernel).

       -i, --internal-only
              Don't call the /sbin/mount.filesystem helper even if it exists.

       -L, --label label
              Mount the partition that has the specified label.

       -l, --show-labels
              Add  the labels in the mount output.  mount must have permission to read the disk device (e.g.
              be set-user-ID root) for this to work.  One can set such a label for ext2, ext3 or ext4  using
              the e2label(8) utility, or for XFS using xfs_admin(8), or for reiserfs using reiserfstune(8).

       -M, --move
              Move a subtree to some other place.  See above, the subsection The move operation.

       -n, --no-mtab
              Mount without writing in /etc/mtab.  This is necessary for example when /etc is on a read-only
              filesystem.

       -O, --test-opts opts
              Limit the set of filesystems to which the -a option applies.  In this regard it is like the -t
              option except that -O is useless without -a.  For example, the command:

                     mount -a -O no_netdev

              mounts  all  filesystems  except  those which have the option _netdev specified in the options
              field in the /etc/fstab file.

              It is different from -t in that each option is matched exactly; a leading no at the  beginning
              of one option does not negate the rest.

              The -t and -O options are cumulative in effect; that is, the command

                     mount -a -t ext2 -O _netdev

              mounts  all ext2 filesystems with the _netdev option, not all filesystems that are either ext2
              or have the _netdev option specified.

       -o, --options opts
              Use the specified mount options.  The opts argument is a comma-separated list.  For example:

                     mount LABEL=mydisk -o noatime,nodev,nosuid

              For more details, see the FILESYSTEM-INDEPENDENT MOUNT OPTIONS and  FILESYSTEM-SPECIFIC  MOUNT
              OPTIONS sections.

       -R, --rbind
              Remount  a  subtree and all possible submounts somewhere else (so that its contents are avail‐
              able in both places).  See above, the subsection Bind mounts.

       -r, --read-only
              Mount the filesystem read-only.  A synonym is -o ro.

              Note that, depending on the filesystem type, state and kernel behavior, the system  may  still
              write  to the device.  For example, ext3 and ext4 will replay the journal if the filesystem is
              dirty.  To prevent this kind of write access, you may want to mount an ext3 or ext4 filesystem
              with  the  ro,noload  mount  options or set the block device itself to read-only mode, see the
              blockdev(8) command.

       -s     Tolerate sloppy mount options rather than failing.  This will ignore mount  options  not  sup‐
              ported  by  a  filesystem type.  Not all filesystems support this option.  Currently it's sup‐
              ported by the mount.nfs mount helper only.

       --source device
              If only one argument for the mount command is given then the argument might be interpreted  as
              target  (mountpoint)  or  source  (device).   This option allows to explicitly define that the
              argument is the mount source.

       --target directory
              If only one argument for the mount command is given then the argument might be interpreted  as
              target  (mountpoint)  or  source  (device).   This option allows to explicitly define that the
              argument is the mount target.

       -T, --fstab path
              Specifies an alternative fstab file.  If path is a directory then the files in  the  directory
              are  sorted  by  strverscmp(3);  files  that start with "." or without an .fstab extension are
              ignored.  The option can be specified more than once.  This  option  is  mostly  designed  for
              initramfs or chroot scripts where additional configuration is specified beyond standard system
              configuration.

              Note that mount(8) does not pass the option --fstab to the /sbin/mount.type  helpers,  meaning
              that  the  alternative  fstab files will be invisible for the helpers.  This is no problem for
              normal mounts, but user (non-root) mounts always require fstab to verify the user's rights.

       -t, --types fstype
              The argument following the -t is used to indicate the filesystem type.  The  filesystem  types
              which  are  currently  supported  depend  on  the  running  kernel.  See /proc/filesystems and
              /lib/modules/$(uname -r)/kernel/fs for a complete list of the filesystems.   The  most  common
              are ext2, ext3, ext4, xfs, btrfs, vfat, sysfs, proc, nfs and cifs.

              The programs mount and umount support filesystem subtypes.  The subtype is defined by a '.sub‐
              type' suffix.  For example  'fuse.sshfs'.  It's recommended to  use  subtype  notation  rather
              than add any prefix to the mount source (for example 'sshfs#example.com' is deprecated).

              If  no  -t  option  is  given,  or  if the auto type is specified, mount will try to guess the
              desired type.  Mount uses the blkid library for guessing the filesystem type; if that does not
              turn up anything that looks familiar, mount will try to read the file /etc/filesystems, or, if
              that does not exist, /proc/filesystems.  All of the filesystem  types  listed  there  will  be
              tried,  except  for  those  that  are  labeled  "nodev"  (e.g.  devpts,  proc  and  nfs).   If
              /etc/filesystems ends in a line with a single *, mount will read /proc/filesystems afterwards.
              While trying, all filesystem types will be mounted with the mount option silent.

              The  auto  type may be useful for user-mounted floppies.  Creating a file /etc/filesystems can
              be useful to change the probe order (e.g., to try vfat before msdos or ext3 before ext2) or if
              you use a kernel module autoloader.

              More  than one type may be specified in a comma-separated list, for option -t as well as in an
              /etc/fstab entry.  The list of filesystem types for option -t can be prefixed with no to spec‐
              ify the filesystem types on which no action should be taken.  The prefix no has no effect when
              specified in an /etc/fstab entry.

              The prefix no can be meaningful with the -a option.  For example, the command

                     mount -a -t nomsdos,smbfs

              mounts all filesystems except those of type msdos and smbfs.

              For most types all the mount program has to do is issue a simple mount(2) system call, and  no
              detailed  knowledge  of  the  filesystem type is required.  For a few types however (like nfs,
              nfs4, cifs, smbfs, ncpfs) an ad hoc code is necessary.  The nfs, nfs4, cifs, smbfs, and  ncpfs
              filesystems have a separate mount program.  In order to make it possible to treat all types in
              a uniform way, mount will execute the program /sbin/mount.type (if that  exists)  when  called
              with  type type.  Since different versions of the smbmount program have different calling con‐
              ventions, /sbin/mount.smbfs may have to be a shell script that sets up the desired call.

       -U, --uuid uuid
              Mount the partition that has the specified uuid.

       -v, --verbose
              Verbose mode.

       -w, --rw, --read-write
              Mount the filesystem read/write. The read-write is kernel default.  A synonym is -o rw.

              Note that specify -w on command line forces mount command to  never  try  read-only  mount  on
              write-protected devices. The default is try read-only if the previous mount syscall with read-
              write flags failed.

       -V, --version
              Display version information and exit.

       -h, --help
              Display help text and exit.

FILESYSTEM-INDEPENDENT MOUNT OPTIONS
       Some of these options are only useful when they appear in the /etc/fstab file.

       Some of these options could be enabled or disabled by default in the system  kernel.   To  check  the
       current setting see the options in /proc/mounts.  Note that filesystems also have per-filesystem spe‐
       cific default mount options (see for example tune2fs -l output for extN filesystems).

       The following options apply to any filesystem that is being mounted (but not every  filesystem  actu‐
       ally honors them – e.g., the sync option today has an effect only for ext2, ext3, fat, vfat and ufs):

       async  All I/O to the filesystem should be done asynchronously.  (See also the sync option.)

       atime  Do  not  use  the  noatime feature, so the inode access time is controlled by kernel defaults.
              See also the descriptions of the relatime and strictatime mount options.

       noatime
              Do not update inode access times on this filesystem (e.g. for faster access on the news  spool
              to  speed  up  news servers).  This works for all inode types (directories too), so it implies
              nodiratime.

       auto   Can be mounted with the -a option.

       noauto Can only be mounted explicitly (i.e., the -a option  will  not  cause  the  filesystem  to  be
              mounted).

       context=context, fscontext=context, defcontext=context, and rootcontext=context
              The  context=  option  is  useful  when  mounting  filesystems  that  do  not support extended
              attributes, such as a floppy or hard disk formatted with VFAT, or systems that  are  not  nor‐
              mally  running  under  SELinux, such as an ext3 formatted disk from a non-SELinux workstation.
              You can also use context= on filesystems you do not trust, such as a floppy.  It also helps in
              compatibility  with  xattr-supporting  filesystems  on  earlier 2.4.<x> kernel versions.  Even
              where xattrs are supported, you can save time not having to label every file by assigning  the
              entire disk one security context.

              A commonly used option for removable media is context="system_u:object_r:removable_t".

              Two  other options are fscontext= and defcontext=, both of which are mutually exclusive of the
              context option.  This means you can use fscontext and defcontext with each other, but  neither
              can be used with context.

              The  fscontext=  option  works  for  all  filesystems, regardless of their xattr support.  The
              fscontext option sets the overarching filesystem label to a specific security  context.   This
              filesystem  label  is  separate  from  the  individual labels on the files.  It represents the
              entire filesystem for certain kinds of permission checks, such as during mount  or  file  cre‐
              ation.   Individual  file  labels  are still obtained from the xattrs on the files themselves.
              The context option actually sets the aggregate context that fscontext provides, in addition to
              supplying the same label for individual files.

              You  can  set the default security context for unlabeled files using defcontext= option.  This
              overrides the value set for unlabeled files in the policy and requires a filesystem that  sup‐
              ports xattr labeling.

              The  rootcontext=  option  allows you to explicitly label the root inode of a FS being mounted
              before that FS or inode becomes visible to userspace.  This was found to be useful for  things
              like stateless linux.

              Note  that  the kernel rejects any remount request that includes the context option, even when
              unchanged from the current context.

              Warning: the context value might contain commas, in which case the value has  to  be  properly
              quoted,  otherwise  mount(8)  will  interpret  the comma as a separator between mount options.
              Don't forget that the shell strips off quotes and thus double quoting is required.  For  exam‐
              ple:

                     mount -t tmpfs none /mnt -o \
                       'context="system_u:object_r:tmp_t:s0:c127,c456",noexec'

              For more details, see selinux(8).

       defaults
              Use the default options: rw, suid, dev, exec, auto, nouser, and async.

              Note  that  the  real  set of all default mount options depends on kernel and filesystem type.
              See the beginning of this section for more details.

       dev    Interpret character or block special devices on the filesystem.

       nodev  Do not interpret character or block special devices on the file system.

       diratime
              Update directory inode access times on this filesystem.  This is the default.  (This option is
              ignored when noatime is set.)

       nodiratime
              Do  not  update directory inode access times on this filesystem.  (This option is implied when
              noatime is set.)

       dirsync
              All directory updates within the filesystem should be done synchronously.   This  affects  the
              following system calls: creat, link, unlink, symlink, mkdir, rmdir, mknod and rename.

       exec   Permit execution of binaries.

       noexec Do not permit direct execution of any binaries on the mounted filesystem.

       group  Allow  an ordinary user to mount the filesystem if one of that user's groups matches the group
              of the device.  This option implies the options nosuid and nodev (unless overridden by  subse‐
              quent options, as in the option line group,dev,suid).

       iversion
              Every time the inode is modified, the i_version field will be incremented.

       noiversion
              Do not increment the i_version inode field.

       mand   Allow mandatory locks on this filesystem.  See fcntl(2).

       nomand Do not allow mandatory locks on this filesystem.

       _netdev
              The  filesystem  resides  on a device that requires network access (used to prevent the system
              from attempting to mount these filesystems until the network has been enabled on the system).

       nofail Do not report errors for this device if it does not exist.

       relatime
              Update inode access times relative to modify or change time.  Access time is only  updated  if
              the  previous  access  time  was  earlier than the current modify or change time.  (Similar to
              noatime, but it doesn't break mutt or other applications that need to know if a file has  been
              read since the last time it was modified.)

              Since  Linux  2.6.30,  the  kernel  defaults  to  the behavior provided by this option (unless
              noatime was specified), and the strictatime option is required to  obtain  traditional  seman‐
              tics.  In addition, since Linux 2.6.30, the file's last access time is always updated if it is
              more than 1 day old.

       norelatime
              Do not use the relatime feature.  See also the strictatime mount option.

       strictatime
              Allows to explicitly request full atime updates.  This makes it possible  for  the  kernel  to
              default  to  relatime  or  noatime but still allow userspace to override it.  For more details
              about the default system mount options see /proc/mounts.

       nostrictatime
              Use the kernel's default behavior for inode access time updates.

       lazytime
              Only update times (atime, mtime, ctime) on the in-memory version of the file inode.

              This mount option significantly reduces writes to the inode table for workloads  that  perform
              frequent random writes to preallocated files.

              The on-disk timestamps are updated only when:

              - the inode needs to be updated for some change unrelated to file timestamps

              - the application employs fsync(2), syncfs(2), or sync(2)

              - an undeleted inode is evicted from memory

              - more than 24 hours have passed since the i-node was written to disk.

       nolazytime
              Do not use the lazytime feature.

       suid   Allow set-user-ID or set-group-ID bits to take effect.

       nosuid Do not allow set-user-ID or set-group-ID bits to take effect.

       silent Turn on the silent flag.

       loud   Turn off the silent flag.

       owner  Allow  an ordinary user to mount the filesystem if that user is the owner of the device.  This
              option implies the options nosuid and nodev (unless overridden by subsequent  options,  as  in
              the option line owner,dev,suid).

       remount
              Attempt  to  remount an already-mounted filesystem.  This is commonly used to change the mount
              flags for a filesystem, especially to make a readonly filesystem writable.  It does not change
              device or mount point.

              The remount operation together with the bind flag has special semantic. See above, the subsec‐
              tion Bind mounts.

              The remount functionality follows the standard way the mount command works with  options  from
              fstab.   This means that mount does not read fstab (or mtab) only when both device and dir are
              specified.

                  mount -o remount,rw /dev/foo /dir

              After this call all old mount options are replaced and arbitrary stuff from fstab (or mtab) is
              ignored,  except  the  loop=  option which is internally generated and maintained by the mount
              command.

                  mount -o remount,rw  /dir

              After this call, mount reads fstab and merges these options with the options from the  command
              line  (-o).   If  no  mountpoint  is found in fstab, then a remount with unspecified source is
              allowed.

       ro     Mount the filesystem read-only.

       rw     Mount the filesystem read-write.

       sync   All I/O to the filesystem should be done synchronously.  In the case of media with  a  limited
              number of write cycles (e.g. some flash drives), sync may cause life-cycle shortening.

       user   Allow  an  ordinary user to mount the filesystem.  The name of the mounting user is written to
              the mtab file (or to the private libmount file in /run/mount  on  systems  without  a  regular
              mtab)  so  that  this  same  user  can  unmount the filesystem again.  This option implies the
              options noexec, nosuid, and nodev (unless overridden by subsequent options, as in  the  option
              line user,exec,dev,suid).

       nouser Forbid  an  ordinary user to mount the filesystem.  This is the default; it does not imply any
              other options.

       users  Allow any user to mount and to unmount the filesystem, even  when  some  other  ordinary  user
              mounted  it.   This option implies the options noexec, nosuid, and nodev (unless overridden by
              subsequent options, as in the option line users,exec,dev,suid).

       X-*    All options prefixed with "X-" are interpreted as comments or  as  userspace  application-spe‐
              cific  options.   These options are not stored in the user space (e.g. mtab file), nor sent to
              the mount.type helpers nor to the mount(2)  system  call.   The  suggested  format  is  X-app‐
              name.option.

       x-*    The  same  as  X-* options, but stored permanently in the user space. It means the options are
              also available for umount or another operations.  Note that maintain  mount  options  in  user
              space  is  tricky,  because  it's necessary use libmount based tools and there is no guarantee
              that the options will be always available (for example after a  move  mount  operation  or  in
              unshared namespace).

              Note  that  before  util-linux  v2.30 the x-* options have not been maintained by libmount and
              stored in user space (functionality was the same as have X-* now), but due to  growing  number
              of  use-cases  (in initrd, systemd etc.) the functionality have been extended to keep existing
              fstab configurations usable without a change.

       X-mount.mkdir[=mode]
              Allow to make a target directory (mountpoint).   The  optional  argument  mode  specifies  the
              filesystem  access  mode used for mkdir(2) in octal notation.  The default mode is 0755.  This
              functionality is supported  only  for  root  users.   The  option  is  also  supported  as  x-
              mount.mkdir, this notation is deprecated for mount.mkdir since v2.30.

FILESYSTEM-SPECIFIC MOUNT OPTIONS
       The  following options apply only to certain filesystems.  We sort them by filesystem.  They all fol‐
       low the -o flag.

       What options are supported depends a bit on the running kernel.  More info may be found in the kernel
       source subdirectory Documentation/filesystems.

   Mount options for adfs
       uid=value and gid=value
              Set the owner and group of the files in the filesystem (default: uid=gid=0).

       ownmask=value and othmask=value
              Set  the  permission  mask  for ADFS 'owner' permissions and 'other' permissions, respectively
              (default:  0700  and  0077,  respectively).   See  also  /usr/src/linux/Documentation/filesys‐
              tems/adfs.txt.

   Mount options for affs
       uid=value and gid=value
              Set the owner and group of the root of the filesystem (default: uid=gid=0, but with option uid
              or gid without specified value, the UID and GID of the current process are taken).

       setuid=value and setgid=value
              Set the owner and group of all files.

       mode=value
              Set the mode of all files to value & 0777 disregarding the original permissions.   Add  search
              permission to directories that have read permission.  The value is given in octal.

       protect
              Do not allow any changes to the protection bits on the filesystem.

       usemp  Set  UID  and GID of the root of the filesystem to the UID and GID of the mount point upon the
              first sync or umount, and then clear this option.  Strange...

       verbose
              Print an informational message for each successful mount.

       prefix=string
              Prefix used before volume name, when following a link.

       volume=string
              Prefix (of length at most 30) used before '/' when following a symbolic link.

       reserved=value
              (Default: 2.) Number of unused blocks at the start of the device.

       root=value
              Give explicitly the location of the root block.

       bs=value
              Give blocksize.  Allowed values are 512, 1024, 2048, 4096.

       grpquota|noquota|quota|usrquota
              These options are accepted but ignored.  (However, quota utilities may react to  such  strings
              in /etc/fstab.)

   Mount options for btrfs
       Btrfs  is a copy-on-write filesystem for Linux aimed at implementing advanced features while focusing
       on fault tolerance, repair, and easy administration.

       alloc_start=bytes
              Debugging option to force all block allocations above a certain byte threshold on  each  block
              device.   The  value is specified in bytes, optionally with a K, M, or G suffix, case insensi‐
              tive.  Default is 1MB.

       autodefrag
              Disable/enable auto defragmentation.  Auto defragmentation detects small  random  writes  into
              files  and queues them up for the defrag process.  Works best for small files; not well-suited
              for large database workloads.

       check_int|check_int_data|check_int_print_mask=value
              These  debugging  options  control  the  behavior  of  the   integrity   checking   module(the
              BTRFS_FS_CHECK_INTEGRITY config option required).

              check_int  enables  the  integrity  checker module, which examines all block-write requests to
              ensure on-disk consistency, at a large memory and CPU cost.

              check_int_data includes extent data in the integrity checks, and implies the check_int option.

              check_int_print_mask  takes  a  bitmask  of  BTRFSIC_PRINT_MASK_*   values   as   defined   in
              fs/btrfs/check-integrity.c, to control the integrity checker module behavior.

              See comments at the top of fs/btrfs/check-integrity.c for more info.

       commit=seconds
              Set  the  interval  of periodic commit, 30 seconds by default.  Higher values defer data being
              synced to permanent storage, with obvious consequences when the  system  crashes.   The  upper
              bound is not forced, but a warning is printed if it's more than 300 seconds (5 minutes).

       compress|compress=type|compress-force|compress-force=type
              Control  BTRFS  file  data compression.  Type may be specified as "zlib" "lzo" or "no" (for no
              compression, used for remounting).  If no type is specified, zlib is used.  If  compress-force
              is specified, all files will be compressed, whether or not they compress well.  If compression
              is enabled, nodatacow and nodatasum are disabled.

       degraded
              Allow mounts to continue with missing devices.  A read-write mount  may  fail  with  too  many
              devices missing, for example if a stripe member is completely missing.

       device=devicepath
              Specify a device during mount so that ioctls on the control device can be avoided.  Especially
              useful when trying to mount a multi-device setup as root.  May be specified multiple times for
              multiple devices.

       discard
              Disable/enable the discard mount option.  The discard function issues frequent commands to let
              the block device reclaim space freed by the filesystem.   This  is  useful  for  SSD  devices,
              thinly  provisioned  LUNs  and  virtual machine images, but may have a significant performance
              impact.  (The fstrim command is also available to initiate batch trims from userspace.)

       enospc_debug
              Disable/enable debugging option to be more verbose in some ENOSPC conditions.

       fatal_errors=action
              Action to take when encountering a fatal error:
                "bug" - BUG() on a fatal error.  This is the default.
                "panic" - panic() on a fatal error.

       flushoncommit
              The flushoncommit mount option forces any data dirtied by a write in a  prior  transaction  to
              commit  as part of the current commit.  This makes the committed state a fully consistent view
              of the filesystem from the application's perspective (i.e., it includes all completed filesys‐
              tem operations).  This was previously the behavior only when a snapshot is created.

       inode_cache
              Enable  free  inode number caching.   Defaults to off due to an overflow problem when the free
              space CRCs don't fit inside a single page.

       max_inline=bytes
              Specify the maximum amount of space, in bytes, that can be inlined in a metadata B-tree  leaf.
              The  value  is  specified in bytes, optionally with a K, M, or G suffix, case insensitive.  In
              practice, this value is limited by the root sector size, with some space  unavailable  due  to
              leaf headers.  For a 4k sectorsize, max inline data is ~3900 bytes.

       metadata_ratio=value
              Specify  that  1  metadata  chunk  should  be allocated after every value data chunks.  Off by
              default.

       noacl  Enable/disable support for Posix Access Control Lists (ACLs).  See the acl(5) manual page  for
              more information about ACLs.

       nobarrier
              Enable/disable  the use of block-layer write barriers.  Write barriers ensure that certain IOs
              make it through the device cache and are on persistent storage.  If disabled on a device  with
              a volatile (non-battery-backed) write-back cache, the nobarrier option will lead to filesystem
              corruption on a system crash or power loss.

       nodatacow
              Enable/disable data copy-on-write for newly created files.  This option implies nodatasum, and
              disables all compression.

       nodatasum
              Enable/disable data checksumming for newly created files.  This option implies datacow.

       notreelog
              Enable/disable the tree logging used for fsync and O_SYNC writes.

       recovery
              Enable  autorecovery attempts if a bad tree root is found at mount time.  Currently this scans
              a list of several previous tree roots and tries to use the first readable.

       rescan_uuid_tree
              Force check and rebuild procedure of the UUID tree.  This should not normally be needed.

       skip_balance
              Skip automatic resume of an interrupted balance operation after mount.  May  be  resumed  with
              "btrfs balance resume."

       nospace_cache
              Disable freespace cache loading without clearing the cache.

       clear_cache
              Force clearing and rebuilding of the disk space cache if something has gone wrong.

       ssd|nossd|ssd_spread
              Options to control ssd allocation schemes.  By default, BTRFS will enable or disable ssd allo‐
              cation heuristics depending on whether a rotational or non-rotational disk is in use.  The ssd
              and nossd options can override this autodetection.

              The ssd_spread mount option attempts to allocate into big chunks of unused space, and may per‐
              form better on low-end ssds.  ssd_spread implies ssd, enabling all  other  ssd  heuristics  as
              well.

       subvol=path
              Mount subvolume at path rather than the root subvolume.  The path is relative to the top level
              subvolume.

       subvolid=ID
              Mount subvolume specified by an ID number rather than the root subvolume.  This allows  mount‐
              ing  of  subvolumes  which  are not in the root of the mounted filesystem.  You can use "btrfs
              subvolume list" to see subvolume ID numbers.

       subvolrootid=objectid  (deprecated)
              Mount subvolume specified by objectid rather than the root subvolume.  This allows mounting of
              subvolumes  which are not in the root of the mounted filesystem.  You can use "btrfs subvolume
              show " to see the object ID for a subvolume.

       thread_pool=number
              The number of worker threads to allocate.  The default number is equal to the number of CPUs +
              2, or 8, whichever is smaller.

       user_subvol_rm_allowed
              Allow subvolumes to be deleted by a non-root user.  Use with caution.

   Mount options for cifs
       See the options section of the mount.cifs(8) man page (cifs-utils package must be installed).

   Mount options for coherent
       None.

   Mount options for debugfs
       The  debugfs  filesystem  is  a pseudo filesystem, traditionally mounted on /sys/kernel/debug.  As of
       kernel version 3.4, debugfs has the following options:

       uid=n, gid=n
              Set the owner and group of the mountpoint.

       mode=value
              Sets the mode of the mountpoint.

   Mount options for devpts
       The devpts filesystem is a pseudo filesystem, traditionally mounted on /dev/pts.  In order to acquire
       a  pseudo  terminal, a process opens /dev/ptmx; the number of the pseudo terminal is then made avail‐
       able to the process and the pseudo terminal slave can be accessed as /dev/pts/<number>.

       uid=value and gid=value
              This sets the owner or the group of newly created PTYs to the specified values.  When  nothing
              is  specified,  they  will be set to the UID and GID of the creating process.  For example, if
              there is a tty group with GID 5, then gid=5 will cause newly created PTYs to belong to the tty
              group.

       mode=value
              Set  the  mode of newly created PTYs to the specified value.  The default is 0600.  A value of
              mode=620 and gid=5 makes "mesg y" the default on newly created PTYs.

       newinstance
              Create a private instance of devpts filesystem, such that indices of ptys  allocated  in  this
              new instance are independent of indices created in other instances of devpts.

              All  mounts  of  devpts without this newinstance option share the same set of pty indices (i.e
              legacy mode).  Each mount of devpts with the newinstance option  has  a  private  set  of  pty
              indices.

              This  option  is  mainly used to support containers in the linux kernel.  It is implemented in
              linux kernel versions starting with 2.6.29.  Further, this mount option is valid only if  CON‐
              FIG_DEVPTS_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES is enabled in the kernel configuration.

              To use this option effectively, /dev/ptmx must be a symbolic link to pts/ptmx.  See Documenta‐
              tion/filesystems/devpts.txt in the linux kernel source tree for details.

       ptmxmode=value

              Set the mode for the new ptmx device node in the devpts filesystem.

              With the support for multiple  instances  of  devpts  (see  newinstance  option  above),  each
              instance   has  a  private  ptmx  node  in  the  root  of  the  devpts  filesystem  (typically
              /dev/pts/ptmx).

              For compatibility with older versions of the kernel, the default mode of the new ptmx node  is
              0000.  ptmxmode=value specifies a more useful mode for the ptmx node and is highly recommended
              when the newinstance option is specified.

              This option is only implemented in linux kernel versions starting with 2.6.29.  Further,  this
              option  is  valid only if CONFIG_DEVPTS_MULTIPLE_INSTANCES is enabled in the kernel configura‐
              tion.

   Mount options for ext2, ext3 and ext4
       See the options section of the ext2(5), ext3(5) or ext4(5) man page (the e2fsprogs  package  must  be
       installed).

   Mount options for fat
       (Note:  fat  is  not  a separate filesystem, but a common part of the msdos, umsdos and vfat filesys‐
       tems.)

       blocksize={512|1024|2048}
              Set blocksize (default 512).  This option is obsolete.

       uid=value and gid=value
              Set the owner and group of all files.  (Default: the UID and GID of the current process.)

       umask=value
              Set the umask (the bitmask of the permissions that are not present).  The default is the umask
              of the current process.  The value is given in octal.

       dmask=value
              Set  the  umask applied to directories only.  The default is the umask of the current process.
              The value is given in octal.

       fmask=value
              Set the umask applied to regular files only.  The default is the umask of the current process.
              The value is given in octal.

       allow_utime=value
              This option controls the permission check of mtime/atime.

              20     If current process is in group of file's group ID, you can change timestamp.

              2      Other users can change timestamp.

              The  default  is  set  from  `dmask'  option.  (If the directory is writable, utime(2) is also
              allowed.  I.e. ~dmask & 022)

              Normally utime(2) checks current process is owner of the file, or it has  CAP_FOWNER  capabil‐
              ity.   But  FAT  filesystem  doesn't  have UID/GID on disk, so normal check is too inflexible.
              With this option you can relax it.

       check=value
              Three different levels of pickyness can be chosen:

              r[elaxed]
                     Upper and lower case are accepted and equivalent, long name parts are  truncated  (e.g.
                     verylongname.foobar  becomes verylong.foo), leading and embedded spaces are accepted in
                     each name part (name and extension).

              n[ormal]
                     Like "relaxed", but many special characters (*, ?, <, spaces, etc.) are rejected.  This
                     is the default.

              s[trict]
                     Like  "normal",  but names that contain long parts or special characters that are some‐
                     times used on Linux but are not accepted by MS-DOS (+, =, etc.) are rejected.

       codepage=value
              Sets the codepage for converting to shortname characters on  FAT  and  VFAT  filesystems.   By
              default, codepage 437 is used.

       conv=mode
              This option is obsolete and may fail or being ignored.

       cvf_format=module
              Forces  the  driver to use the CVF (Compressed Volume File) module cvf_module instead of auto-
              detection.  If the kernel supports kmod, the cvf_format=xxx option also controls on-demand CVF
              module loading.  This option is obsolete.

       cvf_option=option
              Option passed to the CVF module.  This option is obsolete.

       debug  Turn  on the debug flag.  A version string and a list of filesystem parameters will be printed
              (these data are also printed if the parameters appear to be inconsistent).

       discard
              If set, causes discard/TRIM commands to be issued to the block device when blocks  are  freed.
              This is useful for SSD devices and sparse/thinly-provisioned LUNs.

       dos1xfloppy
              If  set,  use  a  fallback  default  BIOS Parameter Block configuration, determined by backing
              device size.  These static parameters match defaults assumed by DOS 1.x for 160 kiB, 180  kiB,
              320 kiB, and 360 kiB floppies and floppy images.

       errors={panic|continue|remount-ro}
              Specify  FAT  behavior  on critical errors: panic, continue without doing anything, or remount
              the partition in read-only mode (default behavior).

       fat={12|16|32}
              Specify a 12, 16 or 32 bit fat.  This overrides the automatic FAT type detection routine.  Use
              with caution!

       iocharset=value
              Character  set  to  use for converting between 8 bit characters and 16 bit Unicode characters.
              The default is iso8859-1.  Long filenames are stored on disk in Unicode format.

       nfs={stale_rw|nostale_ro}
              Enable this only if you want to export the FAT filesystem over NFS.

              stale_rw: This option maintains an index (cache) of directory inodes which is used by the nfs-
              related  code  to  improve look-ups.  Full file operations (read/write) over NFS are supported
              but with cache eviction at NFS server, this could result in spurious ESTALE errors.

              nostale_ro: This option bases the inode number and file handle on the on-disk  location  of  a
              file  in  the FAT directory entry.  This ensures that ESTALE will not be returned after a file
              is evicted from the inode cache.  However, it means that operations such as rename, create and
              unlink  could  cause  file handles that previously pointed at one file to point at a different
              file, potentially causing data corruption.  For this  reason,  this  option  also  mounts  the
              filesystem readonly.

              To maintain backward compatibility, '-o nfs' is also accepted, defaulting to stale_rw.

       tz=UTC This  option  disables  the conversion of timestamps between local time (as used by Windows on
              FAT) and UTC (which Linux uses internally).  This is particularly useful when mounting devices
              (like digital cameras) that are set to UTC in order to avoid the pitfalls of local time.

       time_offset=minutes
              Set  offset  for  conversion  of timestamps from local time used by FAT to UTC.  I.e., minutes
              will be subtracted from each timestamp to convert it to UTC used internally by Linux.  This is
              useful  when  the time zone set in the kernel via settimeofday(2) is not the time zone used by
              the filesystem.  Note that this option still does not provide correct time stamps in all cases
              in presence of DST - time stamps in a different DST setting will be off by one hour.

       quiet  Turn  on the quiet flag.  Attempts to chown or chmod files do not return errors, although they
              fail.  Use with caution!

       rodir  FAT has the ATTR_RO (read-only) attribute.  On Windows, the ATTR_RO of the directory will just
              be  ignored,  and  is  used  only  by applications as a flag (e.g. it's set for the customized
              folder).

              If you want to use ATTR_RO as read-only flag even for the directory, set this option.

       showexec
              If set, the execute permission bits of the file will be allowed only if the extension part  of
              the name is .EXE, .COM, or .BAT.  Not set by default.

       sys_immutable
              If set, ATTR_SYS attribute on FAT is handled as IMMUTABLE flag on Linux.  Not set by default.

       flush  If set, the filesystem will try to flush to disk more early than normal.  Not set by default.

       usefree
              Use  the  "free  clusters"  value stored on FSINFO.  It'll be used to determine number of free
              clusters without scanning disk.  But it's not used by default, because  recent  Windows  don't
              update  it  correctly in some case.  If you are sure the "free clusters" on FSINFO is correct,
              by this option you can avoid scanning disk.

       dots, nodots, dotsOK=[yes|no]
              Various misguided attempts to force Unix or DOS conventions onto a FAT filesystem.

   Mount options for hfs
       creator=cccc, type=cccc
              Set the creator/type values as shown by the MacOS finder used for creating new files.  Default
              values: '????'.

       uid=n, gid=n
              Set the owner and group of all files.  (Default: the UID and GID of the current process.)

       dir_umask=n, file_umask=n, umask=n
              Set  the  umask  used  for  all  directories, all regular files, or all files and directories.
              Defaults to the umask of the current process.

       session=n
              Select the CDROM session to mount.  Defaults to leaving that decision  to  the  CDROM  driver.
              This option will fail with anything but a CDROM as underlying device.

       part=n Select  partition  number  n  from  the device.  Only makes sense for CDROMs.  Defaults to not
              parsing the partition table at all.

       quiet  Don't complain about invalid mount options.

   Mount options for hpfs
       uid=value and gid=value
              Set the owner and group of all files. (Default: the UID and GID of the current process.)

       umask=value
              Set the umask (the bitmask of the permissions that are not present).  The default is the umask
              of the current process.  The value is given in octal.

       case={lower|asis}
              Convert all files names to lower case, or leave them.  (Default: case=lower.)

       conv=mode
              This option is obsolete and may fail or being ignored.

       nocheck
              Do not abort mounting when certain consistency checks fail.

   Mount options for iso9660
       ISO 9660 is a standard describing a filesystem structure to be used on CD-ROMs. (This filesystem type
       is also seen on some DVDs.  See also the udf filesystem.)

       Normal iso9660 filenames appear in a 8.3 format (i.e., DOS-like restrictions on filename length), and
       in addition all characters are in upper case.  Also there is no field for file ownership, protection,
       number of links, provision for block/character devices, etc.

       Rock Ridge is an extension to iso9660 that provides all of these UNIX-like features.  Basically there
       are  extensions to each directory record that supply all of the additional information, and when Rock
       Ridge is in use, the filesystem is indistinguishable from a normal UNIX filesystem (except that it is
       read-only, of course).

       norock Disable the use of Rock Ridge extensions, even if available.  Cf. map.

       nojoliet
              Disable the use of Microsoft Joliet extensions, even if available.  Cf. map.

       check={r[elaxed]|s[trict]}
              With check=relaxed, a filename is first converted to lower case before doing the lookup.  This
              is probably only meaningful together with norock and map=normal.  (Default: check=strict.)

       uid=value and gid=value
              Give all files in the filesystem the indicated user  or  group  id,  possibly  overriding  the
              information found in the Rock Ridge extensions.  (Default: uid=0,gid=0.)

       map={n[ormal]|o[ff]|a[corn]}
              For  non-Rock  Ridge  volumes, normal name translation maps upper to lower case ASCII, drops a
              trailing `;1', and converts `;' to `.'.  With  map=off  no  name  translation  is  done.   See
              norock.   (Default: map=normal.)  map=acorn is like map=normal but also apply Acorn extensions
              if present.

       mode=value
              For non-Rock Ridge volumes, give all files the indicated mode.   (Default:  read  and  execute
              permission for everybody.)  Octal mode values require a leading 0.

       unhide Also  show  hidden  and associated files.  (If the ordinary files and the associated or hidden
              files have the same filenames, this may make the ordinary files inaccessible.)

       block={512|1024|2048}
              Set the block size to the indicated value.  (Default: block=1024.)

       conv=mode
              This option is obsolete and may fail or being ignored.

       cruft  If the high byte of the file length contains other garbage, set this mount  option  to  ignore
              the high order bits of the file length.  This implies that a file cannot be larger than 16 MB.

       session=x
              Select number of session on multisession CD.

       sbsector=xxx
              Session begins from sector xxx.

       The  following options are the same as for vfat and specifying them only makes sense when using discs
       encoded using Microsoft's Joliet extensions.

       iocharset=value
              Character set to use for converting 16 bit Unicode characters on CD to 8 bit characters.   The
              default is iso8859-1.

       utf8   Convert 16 bit Unicode characters on CD to UTF-8.

   Mount options for jfs
       iocharset=name
              Character  set  to  use for converting from Unicode to ASCII.  The default is to do no conver‐
              sion.  Use iocharset=utf8 for UTF8 translations.  This requires CONFIG_NLS_UTF8 to be  set  in
              the kernel .config file.

       resize=value
              Resize  the  volume  to  value  blocks.  JFS only supports growing a volume, not shrinking it.
              This option is only valid during a remount, when the volume is mounted read-write.  The resize
              keyword with no value will grow the volume to the full size of the partition.

       nointegrity
              Do  not  write  to the journal.  The primary use of this option is to allow for higher perfor‐
              mance when restoring a volume from backup media.  The integrity of the volume is  not  guaran‐
              teed if the system abnormally ends.

       integrity
              Default.   Commit  metadata changes to the journal.  Use this option to remount a volume where
              the nointegrity option was previously specified in order to restore normal behavior.

       errors={continue|remount-ro|panic}
              Define the behavior when an error is encountered.  (Either ignore errors  and  just  mark  the
              filesystem  erroneous and continue, or remount the filesystem read-only, or panic and halt the
              system.)

       noquota|quota|usrquota|grpquota
              These options are accepted but ignored.

   Mount options for minix
       None.

   Mount options for msdos
       See mount options for fat.  If the msdos filesystem detects an inconsistency, it reports an error and
       sets the file system read-only.  The filesystem can be made writable again by remounting it.

   Mount options for ncpfs
       Just  like  nfs,  the ncpfs implementation expects a binary argument (a struct ncp_mount_data) to the
       mount system call.  This argument is constructed by ncpmount(8) and  the  current  version  of  mount
       (2.12) does not know anything about ncpfs.

   Mount options for nfs and nfs4
       See the options section of the nfs(5) man page (the nfs-utils package must be installed).

       The nfs and nfs4 implementation expects a binary argument (a struct nfs_mount_data) to the mount sys‐
       tem call.  This argument is constructed by mount.nfs(8) and the current version of mount (2.13)  does
       not know anything about nfs and nfs4.

   Mount options for ntfs
       iocharset=name
              Character  set to use when returning file names.  Unlike VFAT, NTFS suppresses names that con‐
              tain nonconvertible characters.  Deprecated.

       nls=name
              New name for the option earlier called iocharset.

       utf8   Use UTF-8 for converting file names.

       uni_xlate={0|1|2}
              For 0 (or `no' or `false'), do not use escape sequences for unknown Unicode characters.  For 1
              (or  `yes'  or `true') or 2, use vfat-style 4-byte escape sequences starting with ":".  Here 2
              give a little-endian encoding and 1 a byteswapped bigendian encoding.

       posix=[0|1]
              If enabled (posix=1), the filesystem distinguishes between upper  and  lower  case.   The  8.3
              alias names are presented as hard links instead of being suppressed.  This option is obsolete.

       uid=value, gid=value and umask=value
              Set  the  file  permission on the filesystem.  The umask value is given in octal.  By default,
              the files are owned by root and not readable by somebody else.

   Mount options for overlay
       Since Linux 3.18 the overlay pseudo filesystem implements a union mount for other filesystems.

       An overlay filesystem combines two filesystems - an upper filesystem and a lower filesystem.  When  a
       name  exists  in  both filesystems, the object in the upper filesystem is visible while the object in
       the lower filesystem is either hidden or, in the case of directories, merged with the upper object.

       The lower filesystem can be any filesystem supported by Linux and does not need to be writable.   The
       lower  filesystem  can even be another overlayfs.  The upper filesystem will normally be writable and
       if it is it must support the creation of trusted.* extended attributes,  and  must  provide  a  valid
       d_type in readdir responses, so NFS is not suitable.

       A  read-only  overlay of two read-only filesystems may use any filesystem type.  The options lowerdir
       and upperdir are combined into a merged directory by using:

              mount -t overlay  overlay  \
                -olowerdir=/lower,upperdir=/upper,workdir=/work  /merged

       lowerdir=directory
              Any filesystem, does not need to be on a writable filesystem.

       upperdir=directory
              The upperdir is normally on a writable filesystem.

       workdir=directory
              The workdir needs to be an empty directory on the same filesystem as upperdir.

   Mount options for proc
       uid=value and gid=value
              These options are recognized, but have no effect as far as I can see.

   Mount options for ramfs
       Ramfs is a memory based filesystem.  Mount it and you have it.  Unmount it and it is gone.  There are
       no mount options.

   Mount options for reiserfs
       Reiserfs is a journaling filesystem.

       conv   Instructs  version 3.6 reiserfs software to mount a version 3.5 filesystem, using the 3.6 for‐
              mat for newly created objects.  This filesystem will no longer be compatible with reiserfs 3.5
              tools.

       hash={rupasov|tea|r5|detect}
              Choose which hash function reiserfs will use to find files within directories.

              rupasov
                     A  hash invented by Yury Yu. Rupasov.  It is fast and preserves locality, mapping lexi‐
                     cographically close file names to close hash values.  This option should not  be  used,
                     as it causes a high probability of hash collisions.

              tea    A Davis-Meyer function implemented by Jeremy Fitzhardinge.  It uses hash permuting bits
                     in the name.  It gets high randomness and, therefore, low probability  of  hash  colli‐
                     sions at some CPU cost.  This may be used if EHASHCOLLISION errors are experienced with
                     the r5 hash.

              r5     A modified version of the rupasov hash.  It is used by default and is the  best  choice
                     unless the filesystem has huge directories and unusual file-name patterns.

              detect Instructs  mount  to  detect  which hash function is in use by examining the filesystem
                     being mounted, and to write this information into the  reiserfs  superblock.   This  is
                     only useful on the first mount of an old format filesystem.

       hashed_relocation
              Tunes the block allocator.  This may provide performance improvements in some situations.

       no_unhashed_relocation
              Tunes the block allocator.  This may provide performance improvements in some situations.

       noborder
              Disable the border allocator algorithm invented by Yury Yu. Rupasov.  This may provide perfor‐
              mance improvements in some situations.

       nolog  Disable journaling.  This will provide slight performance improvements in some  situations  at
              the  cost  of  losing reiserfs's fast recovery from crashes.  Even with this option turned on,
              reiserfs still performs all journaling operations, save for actual writes into its  journaling
              area.  Implementation of nolog is a work in progress.

       notail By  default,  reiserfs  stores small files and `file tails' directly into its tree.  This con‐
              fuses some utilities such as LILO(8).  This option is used to disable packing  of  files  into
              the tree.

       replayonly
              Replay  the  transactions  which are in the journal, but do not actually mount the filesystem.
              Mainly used by reiserfsck.

       resize=number
              A remount option which permits online expansion of reiserfs partitions.  Instructs reiserfs to
              assume  that the device has number blocks.  This option is designed for use with devices which
              are under logical volume management (LVM).  There is a special resizer utility  which  can  be
              obtained from ftp://ftp.namesys.com/pub/reiserfsprogs.

       user_xattr
              Enable Extended User Attributes.  See the attr(5) manual page.

       acl    Enable POSIX Access Control Lists.  See the acl(5) manual page.

       barrier=none / barrier=flush
              This  disables  / enables the use of write barriers in the journaling code.  barrier=none dis‐
              ables, barrier=flush enables (default).  This also requires an IO stack which can support bar‐
              riers, and if reiserfs gets an error on a barrier write, it will disable barriers again with a
              warning.  Write barriers enforce proper on-disk ordering of journal commits,  making  volatile
              disk  write caches safe to use, at some performance penalty.  If your disks are battery-backed
              in one way or another, disabling barriers may safely improve performance.

   Mount options for romfs
       None.

   Mount options for squashfs
       None.

   Mount options for smbfs
       Just like nfs, the smbfs implementation expects a binary argument (a struct  smb_mount_data)  to  the
       mount  system  call.   This  argument  is constructed by smbmount(8) and the current version of mount
       (2.12) does not know anything about smbfs.

   Mount options for sysv
       None.

   Mount options for tmpfs
       size=nbytes
              Override default maximum size of the filesystem.  The size is given in bytes, and  rounded  up
              to entire pages.  The default is half of the memory.  The size parameter also accepts a suffix
              % to limit this tmpfs instance to that percentage of your physical RAM: the default, when nei‐
              ther size nor nr_blocks is specified, is size=50%

       nr_blocks=
              The same as size, but in blocks of PAGE_CACHE_SIZE

       nr_inodes=
              The  maximum  number  of  inodes for this instance.  The default is half of the number of your
              physical RAM pages, or (on a machine with highmem) the number of lowmem RAM  pages,  whichever
              is the lower.

       The tmpfs mount options for sizing (size, nr_blocks, and nr_inodes) accept a suffix k, m or g for Ki,
       Mi, Gi (binary kilo (kibi), binary mega (mebi) and binary giga (gibi)) and can be changed on remount.

       mode=  Set initial permissions of the root directory.

       uid=   The user id.

       gid=   The group id.

       mpol=[default|prefer:Node|bind:NodeList|interleave|interleave:NodeList]
              Set the NUMA memory allocation policy for all files in  that  instance  (if  the  kernel  CON‐
              FIG_NUMA is enabled) – which can be adjusted on the fly via 'mount -o remount ...'

              default
                     prefers to allocate memory from the local node

              prefer:Node
                     prefers to allocate memory from the given Node

              bind:NodeList
                     allocates memory only from nodes in NodeList

              interleave
                     prefers to allocate from each node in turn

              interleave:NodeList
                     allocates from each node of NodeList in turn.

              The NodeList format is a comma-separated list of decimal numbers and ranges, a range being two
              "hyphen-minus"-separated decimal numbers, the smallest and largest node numbers in the  range.
              For example, mpol=bind:0–3,5,7,9–15

              Note that trying to mount a tmpfs with an mpol option will fail if the running kernel does not
              support NUMA; and will fail if its nodelist specifies a node which is  not  online.   If  your
              system  relies  on that tmpfs being mounted, but from time to time runs a kernel built without
              NUMA capability (perhaps a safe recovery kernel), or with  fewer  nodes  online,  then  it  is
              advisable  to  omit the mpol option from automatic mount options.  It can be added later, when
              the tmpfs is already mounted on MountPoint, by 'mount -o  remount,mpol=Policy:NodeList  Mount‐
              Point'.

   Mount options for ubifs
       UBIFS  is a flash filesystem which works on top of UBI volumes.  Note that atime is not supported and
       is always turned off.

       The device name may be specified as
              ubiX_Y UBI device number X, volume number Y

              ubiY   UBI device number 0, volume number Y

              ubiX:NAME
                     UBI device number X, volume with name NAME

              ubi:NAME
                     UBI device number 0, volume with name NAME
       Alternative !  separator may be used instead of :.

       The following mount options are available:

       bulk_read
              Enable bulk-read.  VFS read-ahead is disabled because it slows down the  file  system.   Bulk-
              Read  is  an  internal optimization.  Some flashes may read faster if the data are read at one
              go, rather than at several read requests.  For example, OneNAND can do "read-while-load" if it
              reads more than one NAND page.

       no_bulk_read
              Do not bulk-read.  This is the default.

       chk_data_crc
              Check data CRC-32 checksums.  This is the default.

       no_chk_data_crc.
              Do  not  check  data CRC-32 checksums.  With this option, the filesystem does not check CRC-32
              checksum for data, but it does check it for the internal indexing  information.   This  option
              only affects reading, not writing.  CRC-32 is always calculated when writing the data.

       compr={none|lzo|zlib}
              Select  the default compressor which is used when new files are written.  It is still possible
              to read compressed files if mounted with the none option.

   Mount options for udf
       udf is the "Universal Disk Format" filesystem defined by the Optical Storage Technology  Association,
       and is often used for DVD-ROM.  See also iso9660.

       gid=   Set the default group.

       umask= Set the default umask.  The value is given in octal.

       uid=   Set the default user.

       unhide Show otherwise hidden files.

       undelete
              Show deleted files in lists.

       nostrict
              Unset strict conformance.

       iocharset
              Set the NLS character set.

       bs=    Set the block size. (May not work unless 2048.)

       novrs  Skip volume sequence recognition.

       session=
              Set the CDROM session counting from 0.  Default: last session.

       anchor=
              Override standard anchor location.  Default: 256.

       volume=
              Override the VolumeDesc location. (unused)

       partition=
              Override the PartitionDesc location. (unused)

       lastblock=
              Set the last block of the filesystem.

       fileset=
              Override the fileset block location. (unused)

       rootdir=
              Override the root directory location. (unused)

   Mount options for ufs
       ufstype=value
              UFS  is  a filesystem widely used in different operating systems.  The problem are differences
              among implementations.  Features of some implementations are undocumented, so its hard to rec‐
              ognize  the  type  of  ufs automatically.  That's why the user must specify the type of ufs by
              mount option.  Possible values are:

              old    Old format of ufs, this is the default, read  only.   (Don't  forget  to  give  the  -r
                     option.)

              44bsd  For filesystems created by a BSD-like system (NetBSD, FreeBSD, OpenBSD).

              ufs2   Used in FreeBSD 5.x supported as read-write.

              5xbsd  Synonym for ufs2.

              sun    For filesystems created by SunOS or Solaris on Sparc.

              sunx86 For filesystems created by Solaris on x86.

              hp     For filesystems created by HP-UX, read-only.

              nextstep
                     For filesystems created by NeXTStep (on NeXT station) (currently read only).

              nextstep-cd
                     For NextStep CDROMs (block_size == 2048), read-only.

              openstep
                     For filesystems created by OpenStep (currently read only).  The same filesystem type is
                     also used by Mac OS X.

       onerror=value
              Set behavior on error:

              panic  If an error is encountered, cause a kernel panic.

              [lock|umount|repair]
                     These mount options don't do anything at present; when an error is encountered  only  a
                     console message is printed.

   Mount options for umsdos
       See mount options for msdos.  The dotsOK option is explicitly killed by umsdos.

   Mount options for vfat
       First  of  all,  the mount options for fat are recognized.  The dotsOK option is explicitly killed by
       vfat.  Furthermore, there are

       uni_xlate
              Translate unhandled Unicode characters to special escaped sequences.  This lets you backup and
              restore filenames that are created with any Unicode characters.  Without this option, a '?' is
              used when no translation is possible.  The escape character is ':'  because  it  is  otherwise
              invalid  on  the  vfat filesystem.  The escape sequence that gets used, where u is the Unicode
              character, is: ':', (u & 0x3f), ((u>>6) & 0x3f), (u>>12).

       posix  Allow two files with names that only differ in case.  This option is obsolete.

       nonumtail
              First try to make a short name without sequence number, before trying name~num.ext.

       utf8   UTF8 is the filesystem safe 8-bit encoding of Unicode that is used by the console.  It can  be
              enabled  for  the  filesystem with this option or disabled with utf8=0, utf8=no or utf8=false.
              If `uni_xlate' gets set, UTF8 gets disabled.

       shortname=mode
              Defines the behavior for creation and display of filenames which fit into 8.3 characters.   If
              a  long  name  for  a file exists, it will always be the preferred one for display.  There are
              four modes:

              lower  Force the short name to lower case upon display; store a long name when the short  name
                     is not all upper case.

              win95  Force  the short name to upper case upon display; store a long name when the short name
                     is not all upper case.

              winnt  Display the short name as is; store a long name when the short name is  not  all  lower
                     case or all upper case.

              mixed  Display  the  short  name as is; store a long name when the short name is not all upper
                     case.  This mode is the default since Linux 2.6.32.

   Mount options for usbfs
       devuid=uid and devgid=gid and devmode=mode
              Set the owner and group and mode of  the  device  files  in  the  usbfs  filesystem  (default:
              uid=gid=0, mode=0644).  The mode is given in octal.

       busuid=uid and busgid=gid and busmode=mode
              Set  the  owner  and  group  and mode of the bus directories in the usbfs filesystem (default:
              uid=gid=0, mode=0555).  The mode is given in octal.

       listuid=uid and listgid=gid and listmode=mode
              Set the owner and group and mode of the file devices  (default:  uid=gid=0,  mode=0444).   The
              mode is given in octal.

   Mount options for xenix
       None.

   Mount options for xfs
       See the options section of the xfs(5) man page (the xfsprogs package must be installed).

THE LOOP DEVICE
       One further possible type is a mount via the loop device.  For example, the command

              mount /tmp/disk.img /mnt -t vfat -o loop=/dev/loop3

       will  set  up the loop device /dev/loop3 to correspond to the file /tmp/disk.img, and then mount this
       device on /mnt.

       If no explicit loop device is mentioned (but just an option `-o loop' is given), then mount will  try
       to find some unused loop device and use that, for example

              mount /tmp/disk.img /mnt -o loop

       The mount command automatically creates a loop device from a regular file if a filesystem type is not
       specified or the filesystem is known for libblkid, for example:

              mount /tmp/disk.img /mnt

              mount -t ext3 /tmp/disk.img /mnt

       This type of mount knows about three options, namely loop, offset  and  sizelimit,  that  are  really
       options  to  losetup(8).   (These options can be used in addition to those specific to the filesystem
       type.)

       Since Linux 2.6.25 auto-destruction of loop devices is supported, meaning that any loop device  allo‐
       cated by mount will be freed by umount independently of /etc/mtab.

       You can also free a loop device by hand, using losetup -d or umount -d.

       Since  util-linux  v2.29 mount command re-uses the loop device rather than initialize a new device if
       the same backing file is already used for some loop device with the same offset and  sizelimit.  This
       is necessary to avoid a filesystem corruption.

RETURN CODES
       mount has the following return codes (the bits can be ORed):

       0      success

       1      incorrect invocation or permissions

       2      system error (out of memory, cannot fork, no more loop devices)

       4      internal mount bug

       8      user interrupt

       16     problems writing or locking /etc/mtab

       32     mount failure

       64     some mount succeeded

       The command mount -a returns 0 (all succeeded), 32 (all failed), or 64 (some failed, some succeeded).

EXTERNAL HELPERS
       The syntax of external mount helpers is:

           /sbin/mount.suffix spec dir [-sfnv] [-o options] [-t type.subtype]

       where  the  suffix  is the filesystem type and the -sfnvo options have the same meaning as the normal
       mount  options.   The  -t  option  is  used  for  filesystems  with  subtypes  support  (for  example
       /sbin/mount.fuse -t fuse.sshfs).

       The  command mount does not pass the mount options unbindable, runbindable, private, rprivate, slave,
       rslave, shared, rshared, auto, noauto, comment, x-*, loop, offset and sizelimit to the mount.<suffix>
       helpers.  All other options are used in a comma-separated list as argument to the -o option.

FILES
       /etc/fstab        filesystem table

       /etc/mtab         table of mounted filesystems

       /etc/mtab~        lock file

       /etc/mtab.tmp     temporary file

       /etc/filesystems  a list of filesystem types to try

ENVIRONMENT
       LIBMOUNT_FSTAB=<path>
              overrides the default location of the fstab file (ignored for suid)

       LIBMOUNT_MTAB=<path>
              overrides the default location of the mtab file (ignored for suid)

       LIBMOUNT_DEBUG=all
              enables libmount debug output

       LIBBLKID_DEBUG=all
              enables libblkid debug output

       LOOPDEV_DEBUG=all
              enables loop device setup debug output

SEE ALSO
       mount(2), umount(2), umount(8), fstab(5), nfs(5), xfs(5), e2label(8), findmnt(8), losetup(8),
       mke2fs(8), mountd(8), nfsd(8), swapon(8), tune2fs(8), xfs_admin(8)

BUGS
       It is possible for a corrupted filesystem to cause a crash.

       Some Linux filesystems don't support -o sync nor -o dirsync (the ext2, ext3, fat and vfat filesystems
       do support synchronous updates (a la BSD) when mounted with the sync option).

       The -o remount may not be able to change mount parameters (all ext2fs-specific parameters, except sb,
       are changeable with a remount, for example, but you can't change gid or umask for the fatfs).

       It is possible that the files /etc/mtab and /proc/mounts don't match on systems with a  regular  mtab
       file.   The first file is based only on the mount command options, but the content of the second file
       also depends on the kernel and others settings (e.g. on a remote NFS server -- in certain  cases  the
       mount  command  may  report unreliable information about an NFS mount point and the /proc/mounts file
       usually contains more reliable information.)  This is another reason to replace the mtab file with  a
       symlink to the /proc/mounts file.

       Checking  files  on NFS filesystems referenced by file descriptors (i.e. the fcntl and ioctl families
       of functions) may lead to inconsistent results due to the lack of a consistency check in  the  kernel
       even if noac is used.

       The  loop  option  with the offset or sizelimit options used may fail when using older kernels if the
       mount command can't confirm that the size of the block device has been configured as requested.  This
       situation  can  be  worked around by using the losetup command manually before calling mount with the
       configured loop device.

HISTORY
       A mount command existed in Version 5 AT&T UNIX.

AUTHORS
       Karel Zak <kzak@redhat.com>

AVAILABILITY
       The mount command  is  part  of  the  util-linux  package  and  is  available  from  https://www.ker‐
       nel.org/pub/linux/utils/util-linux/.

util-linux                                       August 2015                                        MOUNT(8)
