PTS(4)                                    Linux Programmer's Manual                                   PTS(4)

NAME
       ptmx, pts - pseudoterminal master and slave

DESCRIPTION
       The  file  /dev/ptmx is a character file with major number 5 and minor number 2, usually of mode 0666
       and owner.group of root.root.  It is used to create a pseudoterminal master and slave pair.

       When a process opens /dev/ptmx, it gets a file descriptor for a pseudoterminal master  (PTM),  and  a
       pseudoterminal  slave  (PTS)  device  is  created  in  the  /dev/pts directory.  Each file descriptor
       obtained by opening /dev/ptmx is an independent PTM with its own associated PTS, whose  path  can  be
       found by passing the file descriptor to ptsname(3).

       Before opening the pseudoterminal slave, you must pass the master's file descriptor to grantpt(3) and
       unlockpt(3).

       Once both the pseudoterminal master and slave are open, the slave provides processes with  an  inter‐
       face that is identical to that of a real terminal.

       Data  written  to the slave is presented on the master file descriptor as input.  Data written to the
       master is presented to the slave as input.

       In practice, pseudoterminals are used for implementing terminal emulators such as xterm(1), in  which
       data  read  from  the  pseudoterminal master is interpreted by the application in the same way a real
       terminal would interpret the data, and for implementing remote-login programs  such  as  sshd(8),  in
       which data read from the pseudoterminal master is sent across the network to a client program that is
       connected to a terminal or terminal emulator.

       Pseudoterminals can also be used to send input to programs that normally refuse to  read  input  from
       pipes (such as su(1), and passwd(1)).

FILES
       /dev/ptmx, /dev/pts/*

NOTES
       The  Linux  support  for  the above (known as UNIX 98 pseudoterminal naming) is done using the devpts
       filesystem, that should be mounted on /dev/pts.

       Before this UNIX 98 scheme, master pseudoterminals were called /dev/ptyp0, ...  and slave  pseudoter‐
       minals /dev/ttyp0, ...  and one needed lots of preallocated device nodes.

SEE ALSO
       getpt(3), grantpt(3), ptsname(3), unlockpt(3), pty(7)

Linux                                            2016-03-15                                           PTS(4)
