READ(2)                                   Linux Programmer's Manual                                  READ(2)

NAME
       read - read from a file descriptor

SYNOPSIS
       #include <unistd.h>

       ssize_t read(int fd, void *buf, size_t count);

DESCRIPTION
       read() attempts to read up to count bytes from file descriptor fd into the buffer starting at buf.

       On  files  that support seeking, the read operation commences at the file offset, and the file offset
       is incremented by the number of bytes read.  If the file offset is at or past the  end  of  file,  no
       bytes are read, and read() returns zero.

       If  count is zero, read() may detect the errors described below.  In the absence of any errors, or if
       read() does not check for errors, a read() with a count of 0 returns zero and has no other effects.

       According to POSIX.1, if count is greater than SSIZE_MAX, the result is  implementation-defined;  see
       NOTES for the upper limit on Linux.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success, the number of bytes read is returned (zero indicates end of file), and the file position
       is advanced by this number.  It is not an error if this number is smaller than the  number  of  bytes
       requested;  this  may  happen for example because fewer bytes are actually available right now (maybe
       because we were close to end-of-file, or because we are reading from a pipe, or from a terminal),  or
       because read() was interrupted by a signal.  See also NOTES.

       On  error,  -1  is  returned,  and  errno is set appropriately.  In this case, it is left unspecified
       whether the file position (if any) changes.

ERRORS
       EAGAIN The file descriptor fd refers to a file other than a socket and has  been  marked  nonblocking
              (O_NONBLOCK),  and  the  read  would block.  See open(2) for further details on the O_NONBLOCK
              flag.

       EAGAIN or EWOULDBLOCK
              The file descriptor fd refers to a socket and has been marked  nonblocking  (O_NONBLOCK),  and
              the read would block.  POSIX.1-2001 allows either error to be returned for this case, and does
              not require these constants to have the same value, so a portable application should check for
              both possibilities.

       EBADF  fd is not a valid file descriptor or is not open for reading.

       EFAULT buf is outside your accessible address space.

       EINTR  The call was interrupted by a signal before any data was read; see signal(7).

       EINVAL fd  is  attached to an object which is unsuitable for reading; or the file was opened with the
              O_DIRECT flag, and either the address specified in buf, the value specified in count,  or  the
              file offset is not suitably aligned.

       EINVAL fd  was created via a call to timerfd_create(2) and the wrong size buffer was given to read();
              see timerfd_create(2) for further information.

       EIO    I/O error.  This will happen for example when the process is in a  background  process  group,
              tries  to read from its controlling terminal, and either it is ignoring or blocking SIGTTIN or
              its process group is orphaned.  It may also occur when there is a low-level  I/O  error  while
              reading from a disk or tape.  A further possible cause of EIO on networked filesystems is when
              an advisory lock had been taken out on the file descriptor and this lock has been  lost.   See
              the Lost locks section of fcntl(2) for further details.

       EISDIR fd refers to a directory.

       Other errors may occur, depending on the object connected to fd.

CONFORMING TO
       SVr4, 4.3BSD, POSIX.1-2001.

NOTES
       The  types  size_t and ssize_t are, respectively, unsigned and signed integer data types specified by
       POSIX.1.

       On Linux, read() (and similar system calls) will transfer at most 0x7ffff000  (2,147,479,552)  bytes,
       returning  the  number  of  bytes actually transferred.  (This is true on both 32-bit and 64-bit sys‐
       tems.)

       On NFS filesystems, reading small amounts of data will update the timestamp only the first time, sub‐
       sequent  calls  may  not do so.  This is caused by client side attribute caching, because most if not
       all NFS clients leave st_atime (last file access time) updates to the server, and client  side  reads
       satisfied  from  the  client's  cache  will  not cause st_atime updates on the server as there are no
       server-side reads.  UNIX semantics can be obtained by disabling client-side attribute caching, but in
       most situations this will substantially increase server load and decrease performance.

BUGS
       According  to  POSIX.1-2008/SUSv4  Section  XSI  2.9.7 ("Thread Interactions with Regular File Opera‐
       tions"):

           All of the following functions shall be atomic with respect to each other in the  effects  speci‐
           fied in POSIX.1-2008 when they operate on regular files or symbolic links: ...

       Among  the  APIs  subsequently  listed are read() and readv(2).  And among the effects that should be
       atomic across threads (and processes) are updates of the file offset.  However, on Linux before  ver‐
       sion  3.14, this was not the case: if two processes that share an open file description (see open(2))
       perform a read() (or readv(2)) at the same time, then the I/O operations were not atomic with respect
       updating  the  file  offset,  with the result that the reads in the two processes might (incorrectly)
       overlap in the blocks of data that they obtained.  This problem was fixed in Linux 3.14.

SEE ALSO
       close(2),  fcntl(2),  ioctl(2),  lseek(2),  open(2),  pread(2),  readdir(2),  readlink(2),  readv(2),
       select(2), write(2), fread(3)

Linux                                            2018-02-02                                          READ(2)
