SCANF(3)                                  Linux Programmer's Manual                                 SCANF(3)

NAME
       scanf, fscanf, sscanf, vscanf, vsscanf, vfscanf - input format conversion

SYNOPSIS
       #include <stdio.h>

       int scanf(const char *format, ...);
       int fscanf(FILE *stream, const char *format, ...);
       int sscanf(const char *str, const char *format, ...);

       #include <stdarg.h>

       int vscanf(const char *format, va_list ap);
       int vsscanf(const char *str, const char *format, va_list ap);
       int vfscanf(FILE *stream, const char *format, va_list ap);

   Feature Test Macro Requirements for glibc (see feature_test_macros(7)):

       vscanf(), vsscanf(), vfscanf():
           _ISOC99_SOURCE || _POSIX_C_SOURCE >= 200112L

DESCRIPTION
       The  scanf() family of functions scans input according to format as described below.  This format may
       contain conversion specifications; the results from such conversions, if any, are stored in the loca‐
       tions  pointed  to  by  the pointer arguments that follow format.  Each pointer argument must be of a
       type that is appropriate for the value returned by the corresponding conversion specification.

       If the number of conversion specifications in format exceeds the number  of  pointer  arguments,  the
       results  are undefined.  If the number of pointer arguments exceeds the number of conversion specifi‐
       cations, then the excess pointer arguments are evaluated, but are otherwise ignored.

       The scanf() function reads input from the standard input stream stdin, fscanf() reads input from  the
       stream pointer stream, and sscanf() reads its input from the character string pointed to by str.

       The  vfscanf()  function  is  analogous to vfprintf(3) and reads input from the stream pointer stream
       using a variable argument list of pointers (see stdarg(3).  The vscanf() function  scans  a  variable
       argument  list  from  the standard input and the vsscanf() function scans it from a string; these are
       analogous to the vprintf(3) and vsprintf(3) functions respectively.

       The format string consists of a sequence of directives which describe how to process the sequence  of
       input characters.  If processing of a directive fails, no further input is read, and scanf() returns.
       A "failure" can be either of the  following:  input  failure,  meaning  that  input  characters  were
       unavailable, or matching failure, meaning that the input was inappropriate (see below).

       A directive is one of the following:

       ·      A sequence of white-space characters (space, tab, newline, etc.; see isspace(3)).  This direc‐
              tive matches any amount of white space, including none, in the input.

       ·      An ordinary character (i.e., one other than white space or '%').  This character must  exactly
              match the next character of input.

       ·      A  conversion  specification,  which  commences with a '%' (percent) character.  A sequence of
              characters from the input is converted according to this  specification,  and  the  result  is
              placed  in  the  corresponding pointer argument.  If the next item of input does not match the
              conversion specification, the conversion fails—this is a matching failure.

       Each conversion specification in format begins  with  either  the  character  '%'  or  the  character
       sequence "%n$" (see below for the distinction) followed by:

       ·      An  optional '*' assignment-suppression character: scanf() reads input as directed by the con‐
              version specification, but discards the input.  No corresponding pointer argument is required,
              and  this  specification  is  not  included in the count of successful assignments returned by
              scanf().

       ·      For decimal conversions, an optional quote character (').  This specifies that the input  num‐
              ber  may  include  thousands'  separators as defined by the LC_NUMERIC category of the current
              locale.  (See setlocale(3).)  The quote character may precede or follow  the  '*'  assignment-
              suppression character.

       ·      An  optional  'm'  character.  This is used with string conversions (%s, %c, %[), and relieves
              the caller of the need to allocate a corresponding buffer to hold the input: instead,  scanf()
              allocates  a  buffer  of sufficient size, and assigns the address of this buffer to the corre‐
              sponding pointer argument, which should be a pointer to a char * variable (this variable  does
              not need to be initialized before the call).  The caller should subsequently free(3) this buf‐
              fer when it is no longer required.

       ·      An optional decimal integer which specifies the maximum field width.   Reading  of  characters
              stops  either when this maximum is reached or when a nonmatching character is found, whichever
              happens first.  Most conversions discard initial white space characters  (the  exceptions  are
              noted  below),  and  these  discarded  characters  don't count toward the maximum field width.
              String input conversions store a terminating null byte ('\0') to mark the end  of  the  input;
              the maximum field width does not include this terminator.

       ·      An  optional  type  modifier character.  For example, the l type modifier is used with integer
              conversions such as %d to specify that the corresponding pointer argument refers to a long int
              rather than a pointer to an int.

       ·      A conversion specifier that specifies the type of input conversion to be performed.

       The conversion specifications in format are of two forms, either beginning with '%' or beginning with
       "%n$".  The two forms should not be mixed in the same format string, except that a string  containing
       "%n$" specifications can include %% and %*.  If format contains '%' specifications, then these corre‐
       spond in order with successive  pointer  arguments.   In  the  "%n$"  form  (which  is  specified  in
       POSIX.1-2001,  but not C99), n is a decimal integer that specifies that the converted input should be
       placed in the location referred to by the n-th pointer argument following format.

   Conversions
       The following type modifier characters can appear in a conversion specification:

       h      Indicates that the conversion will be one of d, i, o, u, x, X, or n and the next pointer is  a
              pointer to a short int or unsigned short int (rather than int).

       hh     As for h, but the next pointer is a pointer to a signed char or unsigned char.

       j      As  for h, but the next pointer is a pointer to an intmax_t or a uintmax_t.  This modifier was
              introduced in C99.

       l      Indicates either that the conversion will be one of d, i, o, u,  x,  X,  or  n  and  the  next
              pointer is a pointer to a long int or unsigned long int (rather than int), or that the conver‐
              sion will be one of e, f, or g and the next pointer  is  a  pointer  to  double  (rather  than
              float).   Specifying  two  l characters is equivalent to L.  If used with %c or %s, the corre‐
              sponding parameter is considered as a pointer to a wide  character  or  wide-character  string
              respectively.

       L      Indicates  that  the conversion will be either e, f, or g and the next pointer is a pointer to
              long double or the conversion will be d, i, o, u, or x and the next pointer is  a  pointer  to
              long long.

       q      equivalent to L.  This specifier does not exist in ANSI C.

       t      As  for  h, but the next pointer is a pointer to a ptrdiff_t.  This modifier was introduced in
              C99.

       z      As for h, but the next pointer is a pointer to a size_t.  This modifier was introduced in C99.

       The following conversion specifiers are available:

       %      Matches a literal '%'.  That is, %% in the format string matches a single input '%' character.
              No  conversion is done (but initial white space characters are discarded), and assignment does
              not occur.

       d      Matches an optionally signed decimal integer; the next pointer must be a pointer to int.

       D      Equivalent to ld; this exists only for backward compatibility.  (Note: thus only in libc4.  In
              libc5 and glibc the %D is silently ignored, causing old programs to fail mysteriously.)

       i      Matches  an optionally signed integer; the next pointer must be a pointer to int.  The integer
              is read in base 16 if it begins with 0x or 0X, in base 8 if it begins with 0, and in  base  10
              otherwise.  Only characters that correspond to the base are used.

       o      Matches an unsigned octal integer; the next pointer must be a pointer to unsigned int.

       u      Matches an unsigned decimal integer; the next pointer must be a pointer to unsigned int.

       x      Matches an unsigned hexadecimal integer; the next pointer must be a pointer to unsigned int.

       X      Equivalent to x.

       f      Matches  an  optionally  signed  floating-point  number; the next pointer must be a pointer to
              float.

       e      Equivalent to f.

       g      Equivalent to f.

       E      Equivalent to f.

       a      (C99) Equivalent to f.

       s      Matches a sequence of non-white-space characters; the next pointer must be a  pointer  to  the
              initial  element  of  a character array that is long enough to hold the input sequence and the
              terminating null byte ('\0'), which is added automatically.  The input string stops  at  white
              space or at the maximum field width, whichever occurs first.

       c      Matches a sequence of characters whose length is specified by the maximum field width (default
              1); the next pointer must be a pointer to char, and there must be  enough  room  for  all  the
              characters (no terminating null byte is added).  The usual skip of leading white space is sup‐
              pressed.  To skip white space first, use an explicit space in the format.

       [      Matches a nonempty sequence of characters from the specified set of accepted  characters;  the
              next  pointer  must be a pointer to char, and there must be enough room for all the characters
              in the string, plus a terminating null byte.  The usual skip of leading white  space  is  sup‐
              pressed.   The  string is to be made up of characters in (or not in) a particular set; the set
              is defined by the characters between the open bracket [ character and a close bracket ]  char‐
              acter.   The  set excludes those characters if the first character after the open bracket is a
              circumflex (^).  To include a close bracket in the set, make it the first character after  the
              open  bracket  or the circumflex; any other position will end the set.  The hyphen character -
              is also special; when placed between two other characters, it adds all intervening  characters
              to  the  set.  To include a hyphen, make it the last character before the final close bracket.
              For instance, [^]0-9-] means the set "everything except close bracket, zero through nine,  and
              hyphen".   The  string  ends with the appearance of a character not in the (or, with a circum‐
              flex, in) set or when the field width runs out.

       p      Matches a pointer value (as printed by %p in printf(3); the next pointer must be a pointer  to
              a pointer to void.

       n      Nothing  is  expected;  instead,  the number of characters consumed thus far from the input is
              stored through the next pointer, which must be a pointer to int.  This is not a conversion and
              does  not  increase the count returned by the function.  The assignment can be suppressed with
              the * assignment-suppression character, but the effect  on  the  return  value  is  undefined.
              Therefore %*n conversions should not be used.

RETURN VALUE
       On  success, these functions return the number of input items successfully matched and assigned; this
       can be fewer than provided for, or even zero, in the event of an early matching failure.

       The value EOF is returned if the end of input is reached before either the first  successful  conver‐
       sion  or  a  matching failure occurs.  EOF is also returned if a read error occurs, in which case the
       error indicator for the stream (see ferror(3)) is set, and errno is set to indicate the error.

ERRORS
       EAGAIN The file descriptor underlying stream is marked nonblocking,  and  the  read  operation  would
              block.

       EBADF  The file descriptor underlying stream is invalid, or not open for reading.

       EILSEQ Input byte sequence does not form a valid character.

       EINTR  The read operation was interrupted by a signal; see signal(7).

       EINVAL Not enough arguments; or format is NULL.

       ENOMEM Out of memory.

       ERANGE The  result  of  an  integer conversion would exceed the size that can be stored in the corre‐
              sponding integer type.

ATTRIBUTES
       For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see attributes(7).

       ┌─────────────────────┬───────────────┬────────────────┐
       │Interface            │ Attribute     │ Value          │
       ├─────────────────────┼───────────────┼────────────────┤
       │scanf(), fscanf(),   │ Thread safety │ MT-Safe locale │
       │sscanf(), vscanf(),  │               │                │
       │vsscanf(), vfscanf() │               │                │
       └─────────────────────┴───────────────┴────────────────┘

CONFORMING TO
       The functions fscanf(), scanf(), and sscanf() conform to C89 and C99 and POSIX.1-2001.   These  stan‐
       dards do not specify the ERANGE error.

       The  q  specifier is the 4.4BSD notation for long long, while ll or the usage of L in integer conver‐
       sions is the GNU notation.

       The Linux version of these functions is based on the GNU libio library.  Take a look at the info doc‐
       umentation of GNU libc (glibc-1.08) for a more concise description.

NOTES
   The 'a' assignment-allocation modifier
       Originally, the GNU C library supported dynamic allocation for string inputs (as a nonstandard exten‐
       sion) via the a character.  (This feature is present at least as far back as glibc 2.0.)   Thus,  one
       could  write  the  following to have scanf() allocate a buffer for an input string, with a pointer to
       that buffer being returned in *buf:

           char *buf;
           scanf("%as", &buf);

       The use of the letter a for this purpose was problematic, since a is also  specified  by  the  ISO  C
       standard  as  a  synonym for f (floating-point input).  POSIX.1-2008 instead specifies the m modifier
       for assignment allocation (as documented in DESCRIPTION, above).

       Note that the a modifier is not available if the  program  is  compiled  with  gcc  -std=c99  or  gcc
       -D_ISOC99_SOURCE  (unless  _GNU_SOURCE  is  also  specified), in which case the a is interpreted as a
       specifier for floating-point numbers (see above).

       Support for the m modifier was added to glibc starting with version 2.7, and new programs should  use
       that modifier instead of a.

       As  well as being standardized by POSIX, the m modifier has the following further advantages over the
       use of a:

       * It may also be applied to %c conversion specifiers (e.g., %3mc).

       * It avoids ambiguity with respect to the %a floating-point conversion specifier (and  is  unaffected
         by gcc -std=c99 etc.).

BUGS
       All  functions  are fully C89 conformant, but provide the additional specifiers q and a as well as an
       additional behavior of the L and l specifiers.  The latter may be considered  to  be  a  bug,  as  it
       changes the behavior of specifiers defined in C89.

       Some combinations of the type modifiers and conversion specifiers defined by ANSI C do not make sense
       (e.g., %Ld).  While they may have a well-defined behavior on Linux, this need not to be so  on  other
       architectures.   Therefore  it  usually  is better to use modifiers that are not defined by ANSI C at
       all, that is, use q instead of L in combination with d, i, o, u, x, and X conversions or ll.

       The usage of q is not the same as on 4.4BSD, as it may be used in float conversions  equivalently  to
       L.

EXAMPLE
       To  use  the  dynamic  allocation  conversion  specifier, specify m as a length modifier (thus %ms or
       %m[range]).  The caller must free(3) the returned string, as in the following example:

           char *p;
           int n;

           errno = 0;
           n = scanf("%m[a-z]", &p);
           if (n == 1) {
               printf("read: %s\n", p);
               free(p);
           } else if (errno != 0) {
               perror("scanf");
           } else {
               fprintf(stderr, "No matching characters\n");
           }

       As shown in the above example, it is necessary to call free(3) only if the scanf() call  successfully
       read a string.

SEE ALSO
       getc(3), printf(3), setlocale(3), strtod(3), strtol(3), strtoul(3)

GNU                                              2017-09-15                                         SCANF(3)
