SETGID(2)                                 Linux Programmer's Manual                                SETGID(2)

NAME
       setgid - set group identity

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/types.h>
       #include <unistd.h>

       int setgid(gid_t gid);

DESCRIPTION
       setgid()  sets  the  effective group ID of the calling process.  If the calling process is privileged
       (more precisely: has the CAP_SETGID capability in its user namespace), the real GID  and  saved  set-
       group-ID are also set.

       Under  Linux, setgid() is implemented like the POSIX version with the _POSIX_SAVED_IDS feature.  This
       allows a set-group-ID program that is not set-user-ID-root to drop all of its  group  privileges,  do
       some un-privileged work, and then reengage the original effective group ID in a secure manner.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, zero is returned.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropriately.

ERRORS
       EINVAL The group ID specified in gid is not valid in this user namespace.

       EPERM  The  calling process is not privileged (does not have the CAP_SETGID capability), and gid does
              not match the real group ID or saved set-group-ID of the calling process.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4.

NOTES
       The original Linux setgid() system call supported only 16-bit group  IDs.   Subsequently,  Linux  2.4
       added setgid32() supporting 32-bit IDs.  The glibc setgid() wrapper function transparently deals with
       the variation across kernel versions.

   C library/kernel differences
       At the kernel level, user IDs and group IDs are a per-thread attribute.  However, POSIX requires that
       all  threads  in a process share the same credentials.  The NPTL threading implementation handles the
       POSIX requirements by providing wrapper functions for the various system calls  that  change  process
       UIDs  and GIDs.  These wrapper functions (including the one for setgid()) employ a signal-based tech‐
       nique to ensure that when one thread changes credentials, all of the other  threads  in  the  process
       also change their credentials.  For details, see nptl(7).

SEE ALSO
       getgid(2), setegid(2), setregid(2), capabilities(7), credentials(7), user_namespaces(7)

Linux                                            2017-09-15                                        SETGID(2)
