GETPRIORITY(2)                            Linux Programmer's Manual                           GETPRIORITY(2)

NAME
       getpriority, setpriority - get/set program scheduling priority

SYNOPSIS
       #include <sys/time.h>
       #include <sys/resource.h>

       int getpriority(int which, id_t who);
       int setpriority(int which, id_t who, int prio);

DESCRIPTION
       The  scheduling  priority  of  the  process, process group, or user, as indicated by which and who is
       obtained with the getpriority() call and set with the  setpriority()  call.   The  process  attribute
       dealt with by these system calls is the same attribute (also known as the "nice" value) that is dealt
       with by nice(2).

       The value which is one of PRIO_PROCESS, PRIO_PGRP, or PRIO_USER, and who is interpreted  relative  to
       which  (a  process identifier for PRIO_PROCESS, process group identifier for PRIO_PGRP, and a user ID
       for PRIO_USER).  A zero value for who denotes (respectively) the calling process, the  process  group
       of the calling process, or the real user ID of the calling process.

       The  prio argument is a value in the range -20 to 19 (but see NOTES below).  with -20 being the high‐
       est priority and 19 being the lowest priority.  Attempts to set a priority  outside  this  range  are
       silently  clamped  to  the  range.   The  default priority is 0; lower values give a process a higher
       scheduling priority.

       The getpriority() call returns the highest priority (lowest numerical value) enjoyed by  any  of  the
       specified processes.  The setpriority() call sets the priorities of all of the specified processes to
       the specified value.

       Traditionally, only a privileged process could lower the nice value (i.e., set  a  higher  priority).
       However,  since Linux 2.6.12, an unprivileged process can decrease the nice value of a target process
       that has a suitable RLIMIT_NICE soft limit; see getrlimit(2) for details.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, getpriority() returns the calling thread's nice value, which may be  a  negative  number.
       On  error,  it returns -1 and sets errno to indicate the cause of the error.  Since a successful call
       to getpriority() can legitimately return the value -1, it is necessary to clear the external variable
       errno  prior  to  the  call,  then  check it afterward to determine if -1 is an error or a legitimate
       value.

       setpriority() returns 0 on success.  On error, it returns -1 and sets errno to indicate the cause  of
       the error.

ERRORS
       EINVAL which was not one of PRIO_PROCESS, PRIO_PGRP, or PRIO_USER.

       ESRCH  No process was located using the which and who values specified.

       In addition to the errors indicated above, setpriority() may fail if:

       EACCES The  caller attempted to set a lower nice value (i.e., a higher process priority), but did not
              have the required privilege (on Linux: did not have the CAP_SYS_NICE capability).

       EPERM  A process was located, but its effective user ID did not match either  the  effective  or  the
              real  user  ID  of the caller, and was not privileged (on Linux: did not have the CAP_SYS_NICE
              capability).  But see NOTES below.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, SVr4, 4.4BSD (these interfaces first appeared in 4.2BSD).

NOTES
       For further details on the nice value, see sched(7).

       Note: the addition of the "autogroup" feature in Linux 2.6.38 means that the nice value no longer has
       its traditional effect in many circumstances.  For details, see sched(7).

       A  child  created  by  fork(2)  inherits its parent's nice value.  The nice value is preserved across
       execve(2).

       The details on the condition for  EPERM  depend  on  the  system.   The  above  description  is  what
       POSIX.1-2001  says,  and  seems  to  be  followed on all System V-like systems.  Linux kernels before
       2.6.12 required the real or effective user ID of the caller to match the real user of the process who
       (instead  of  its  effective  user  ID).  Linux 2.6.12 and later require the effective user ID of the
       caller to match the real or effective user ID of the process who.  All BSD-like systems (SunOS 4.1.3,
       Ultrix  4.2,  4.3BSD,  FreeBSD  4.3,  OpenBSD-2.5, ...) behave in the same manner as Linux 2.6.12 and
       later.

       Including  <sys/time.h>  is  not  required  these  days,   but   increases   portability.    (Indeed,
       <sys/resource.h>  defines  the  rusage  structure  with  fields  of  type  struct  timeval defined in
       <sys/time.h>.)

   C library/kernel differences
       Within the kernel, nice values are actually represented using the range 40..1 (since negative numbers
       are  error  codes)  and  these  are the values employed by the setpriority() and getpriority() system
       calls.  The glibc wrapper functions for these system calls handle the translations between the  user-
       land  and  kernel  representations  of  the  nice  value according to the formula unice = 20 - knice.
       (Thus, the kernel's 40..1 range corresponds to the range -20..19 as seen by user space.)

BUGS
       According to POSIX, the nice value is a per-process setting.  However, under the  current  Linux/NPTL
       implementation  of  POSIX threads, the nice value is a per-thread attribute: different threads in the
       same process can have different nice values.  Portable applications should avoid relying on the Linux
       behavior, which may be made standards conformant in the future.

SEE ALSO
       nice(1), renice(1), fork(2), capabilities(7), sched(7)

       Documentation/scheduler/sched-nice-design.txt in the Linux kernel source tree (since Linux 2.6.23)

Linux                                            2017-09-15                                   GETPRIORITY(2)
