SIGNAL(2)                                 Linux Programmer's Manual                                SIGNAL(2)

NAME
       signal - ANSI C signal handling

SYNOPSIS
       #include <signal.h>

       typedef void (*sighandler_t)(int);

       sighandler_t signal(int signum, sighandler_t handler);

DESCRIPTION
       The behavior of signal() varies across UNIX versions, and has also varied historically across differ‐
       ent versions of Linux.  Avoid its use: use sigaction(2) instead.  See Portability below.

       signal() sets the disposition of the signal signum to handler, which is either SIG_IGN,  SIG_DFL,  or
       the address of a programmer-defined function (a "signal handler").

       If the signal signum is delivered to the process, then one of the following happens:

       *  If the disposition is set to SIG_IGN, then the signal is ignored.

       *  If the disposition is set to SIG_DFL, then the default action associated with the signal (see sig‐
          nal(7)) occurs.

       *  If the disposition is set to a function, then first either the disposition is reset to SIG_DFL, or
          the  signal  is  blocked (see Portability below), and then handler is called with argument signum.
          If invocation of the handler caused the signal to be blocked, then the signal  is  unblocked  upon
          return from the handler.

       The signals SIGKILL and SIGSTOP cannot be caught or ignored.

RETURN VALUE
       signal()  returns  the previous value of the signal handler, or SIG_ERR on error.  In the event of an
       error, errno is set to indicate the cause.

ERRORS
       EINVAL signum is invalid.

CONFORMING TO
       POSIX.1-2001, POSIX.1-2008, C89, C99.

NOTES
       The effects of signal() in a multithreaded process are unspecified.

       According to POSIX, the behavior of a process is undefined after it  ignores  a  SIGFPE,  SIGILL,  or
       SIGSEGV signal that was not generated by kill(2) or raise(3).  Integer division by zero has undefined
       result.  On some architectures it will generate a SIGFPE signal.  (Also dividing  the  most  negative
       integer by -1 may generate SIGFPE.)  Ignoring this signal might lead to an endless loop.

       See sigaction(2) for details on what happens when the disposition SIGCHLD is set to SIG_IGN.

       See  signal-safety(7)  for  a  list of the async-signal-safe functions that can be safely called from
       inside a signal handler.

       The use of sighandler_t is a GNU extension, exposed if _GNU_SOURCE is  defined;  glibc  also  defines
       (the  BSD-derived)  sig_t  if _BSD_SOURCE (glibc 2.19 and earlier) or _DEFAULT_SOURCE (glibc 2.19 and
       later) is defined.  Without use of such a type, the declaration of signal() is the somewhat harder to
       read:

           void ( *signal(int signum, void (*handler)(int)) ) (int);

   Portability
       The only portable use of signal() is to set a signal's disposition to SIG_DFL or SIG_IGN.  The seman‐
       tics when using signal() to establish a signal handler vary across systems  (and  POSIX.1  explicitly
       permits this variation); do not use it for this purpose.

       POSIX.1  solved  the  portability mess by specifying sigaction(2), which provides explicit control of
       the semantics when a signal handler is invoked; use that interface instead of signal().

       In the original UNIX systems, when a handler that was established using signal() was invoked  by  the
       delivery of a signal, the disposition of the signal would be reset to SIG_DFL, and the system did not
       block delivery of further instances of the signal.  This is equivalent to calling  sigaction(2)  with
       the following flags:

           sa.sa_flags = SA_RESETHAND | SA_NODEFER;

       System V also provides these semantics for signal().  This was bad because the signal might be deliv‐
       ered again before the handler had a chance to reestablish itself.  Furthermore, rapid  deliveries  of
       the same signal could result in recursive invocations of the handler.

       BSD improved on this situation, but unfortunately also changed the semantics of the existing signal()
       interface while doing so.  On BSD, when a signal handler is invoked, the signal  disposition  is  not
       reset, and further instances of the signal are blocked from being delivered while the handler is exe‐
       cuting.  Furthermore, certain blocking system calls are automatically restarted if interrupted  by  a
       signal  handler  (see  signal(7)).  The BSD semantics are equivalent to calling sigaction(2) with the
       following flags:

           sa.sa_flags = SA_RESTART;

       The situation on Linux is as follows:

       * The kernel's signal() system call provides System V semantics.

       * By default, in glibc 2 and later, the signal() wrapper function does not invoke the  kernel  system
         call.  Instead, it calls sigaction(2) using flags that supply BSD semantics.  This default behavior
         is provided as long as a suitable feature test macro is defined: _BSD_SOURCE on glibc 2.19 and ear‐
         lier  or  _DEFAULT_SOURCE in glibc 2.19 and later.  (By default, these macros are defined; see fea‐
         ture_test_macros(7) for details.)  If such a feature test macro is not defined, then signal()  pro‐
         vides System V semantics.

SEE ALSO
       kill(1),  alarm(2), kill(2), pause(2), sigaction(2), signalfd(2), sigpending(2), sigprocmask(2), sig‐
       suspend(2),  bsd_signal(3),  killpg(3),   raise(3),   siginterrupt(3),   sigqueue(3),   sigsetops(3),
       sigvec(3), sysv_signal(3), signal(7)

Linux                                            2017-09-15                                        SIGNAL(2)
