SYSFS(2)                                  Linux Programmer's Manual                                 SYSFS(2)

NAME
       sysfs - get filesystem type information

SYNOPSIS
       int sysfs(int option, const char *fsname);

       int sysfs(int option, unsigned int fs_index, char *buf);

       int sysfs(int option);

DESCRIPTION
       Note: if you are looking for information about the sysfs filesystem that is normally mounted at /sys,
       see sysfs(5).

       The (obsolete) sysfs() system call returns information about the filesystem types  currently  present
       in  the  kernel.   The  specific form of the sysfs() call and the information returned depends on the
       option in effect:

       1  Translate the filesystem identifier string fsname into a filesystem type index.

       2  Translate the filesystem type index fs_index into a null-terminated filesystem identifier  string.
          This  string will be written to the buffer pointed to by buf.  Make sure that buf has enough space
          to accept the string.

       3  Return the total number of filesystem types currently present in the kernel.

       The numbering of the filesystem type indexes begins with zero.

RETURN VALUE
       On success, sysfs() returns the filesystem index for option 1, zero for option 2, and the  number  of
       currently  configured filesystems for option 3.  On error, -1 is returned, and errno is set appropri‐
       ately.

ERRORS
       EFAULT Either fsname or buf is outside your accessible address space.

       EINVAL fsname is not a valid  filesystem  type  identifier;  fs_index  is  out-of-bounds;  option  is
              invalid.

CONFORMING TO
       SVr4.

NOTES
       This  System-V derived system call is obsolete; don't use it.  On systems with /proc, the same infor‐
       mation can be obtained via /proc/filesystems; use that interface instead.

BUGS
       There is no libc or glibc support.  There is no way to guess how large buf should be.

Linux                                            2017-09-15                                         SYSFS(2)
